I would remind the House that Athens is the European capital with the smallest ratio of green spaces to inhabitants and with the highest atmospheric pollution, and that the fires in 2007 and 2009 have exacerbated the environmental problem.
In addition to the rules concerning the European authority that I mentioned previously, the agreement therefore also contains a provision stating that the system must be appraised by an independent appraisal body.
According to the proposed reform, we should be permanently receiving just a fraction of the aid being afforded to the producers of unsellable wines.
It was therefore absolutely appropriate to act in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity.
I feel it is wise, therefore, to think about the best way of enforcing these conditions.
However, because it is topical and because human lives are at stake, I feel obliged to call your attention to it.
The European Parliament has voted for this.
However, it should be remembered that the intended addressees of the simplifications should not only be the authorities and national bodies which manage the agriculture sector but, first and foremost, the farmers, who are excessively burdened with regulations.
I started with Lisbon and I will finish with it: ratification of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the inclusion of the social clause in the Lisbon Treaty would have improved the situation of workers across the EU.
The Commission will also do its part to ensure that the new tools are put to good use when needed.
It would be completely mistaken and incorrect to characterise this process as a bilateral affair between two Member States of the EU.
Yet the sad fact is that, of the 71 countries that are eligible, fewer than 20 have applied for AMC funding that will save so many lives.
It is a particular achievement of this report that the European Parliament has realised beyond any shadow of a doubt, and accepted, that ideological concerns cannot override environmental and economic necessity.
I am pleased to hear from the Commissioner that organ trafficking is to be included at last in the report on trafficking in human beings.
For these reasons, the ideal solution must be found for successfully implementing the Treaty of Lisbon, which is itself a major financial challenge.
Since then, the matter has been blocked in the Council, which has sat on the proposed reform for over two years.
On the other hand, we have the level of openness to trade relating to agricultural goods and the definition of health and plant health rules that are needed for exchange between the blocs.
The next item is Question Time (B6-0138/2007).
With the aid after the flood disaster, we realised how much the regime fears the possibility that foreigners will see at first hand how bad the situation is or that they will influence the population.
Approval of Minutes of previous sitting: see Minutes
Having said that, it must be said that the foreign banks in those countries are conducting themselves extraordinarily well, as I have already said.
Bumper crops, unfavourable international market conditions and the fluctuating yields that are customary in Central Europe have driven prices well below the intervention level in certain regions within Hungary.
The proposed directive would force too many Member States with already-effective domestic measures to dismantle them, as they would be incompatible with the directive.
Nine: improved transparency and consumer guarantees, labelling and traceability.
However, we cannot support the use of the passerelle in Article 67(2), indent 2, of the EC Treaty as suggested by Mr Coelho.
Furthermore, the opinion of this German institute is not shared by any other scientific institute in Europe - not one!
If we have global solidarity first instead of solidarity within the Community, then why do we need the Community at all?
in writing. - I am in support of this report from the Parliament looking at Ship Inspections and Survey Organisations and I am in favour of the other Parliament reports which, along with this one, make up the Maritime Package.
It means that companies will be able to publish accounts in one basic form, which should be accepted in the major economies around the world.
Our Federal Chancellor, Angela Merkel, in particular, of whom I was so proud last year, was the very person who battled for a delay, a slowdown and exemptions.
The signals made threw some light on the flexibilities that our key trading partners have in the services field, and this is precious information.
We therefore hope that the Member States will do everything within their power to complete the necessary ratification procedures as quickly as possible in order to associate the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein with Frontex.
Also missing is effective prevention and education focused on children and parents alike.
Since Mr Gobbo was not an MEP at the time of the facts, I believe that the most proper solution should be for Parliament to refrain from taking a stance because he was not a colleague of ours.
This is the only way in which the SET plan and the Members of this House can maintain their credibility.
We also understand the importance of discussing important regional issues - Afghanistan, Pakistan and the Middle East, for example.
If this is not the case, Slovakia may have a problem holding down inflation after entry to the Euro Zone.
Any act of violence and discrimination must be condemned in no uncertain terms, but we need to consider the situation, and especially to avoid hypocrisy or, even worse, political exploitation.
Saying that is not getting involved in internal politics, that is being honest and I have to be honest, with all the responsibilities that I have, I have to say exactly what happened, whom we negotiated with and when.
But, in terms of its work of standing up for Europe's citizens, there is something missing in the procedure, and that is the presence of the Council and the Permanent Representatives of the Member States.
We owe this to the rest of the world, our future generations and the European taxpayers.
We cannot ban fishing because of the social and economic consequences, but immediate action is needed to implement the cod stocks recovery plan.
The PEACE Programmes have made a valuable contribution to the peace process in Ireland and efforts to build upon this in the future are to be welcomed.
The world's car industry has got into difficulties, though that is not true for all plants.
Today we should accuse the four presidencies for this sluggishness in reforming the Solidarity Fund.
That is the only way of building the confidence required for accession.
Moreover, the report recognises that the aviation sector has many negative effects which contribute to climate change.
We cannot base our efforts to protect the climate on hiding pollution away for future generations.
Oral questions and written declarations (submission): see Minutes
Being transported for two hours might be worse than for nine.
I find it highly regrettable that negotiations with the Member States on the energy package did not progress far enough for us to underpin these summit decisions in Brussels prior to the Bali conference.
Mr President, feeding the hungry is an essential duty and we have to find a way to see that no person, especially a child, goes to bed hungry.
For what do we find among the rating agencies?
The GEEREF needs to be spread to different parts of the world, also with a view to spreading the investment risk, and Mr Turmes's suggestion about the percentage is very correct.
In my observations I have already alluded to the potential - but also to possible pitfalls - of intercultural dialogue.
Here and there we are even hearing calls for the Millennium Goals to be shelved.
Why does lifelong learning not exist in Europe as it should?
You say nothing for years, and then you even relax the standards.
I supported this report since I believe that it is necessary to strengthen the provisions in the area of the fight against fraud.
The Presidency is convinced that there is an opportunity now to engage with Turkmenistan, and that approach is the only effective means of establishing a frank dialogue on issues such as human rights.
Moreover, authorisation procedures should be reviewed in such a way that it becomes possible both to accelerate procedures for new drugs and to adhere to high standards of safety.
To conclude, I believe that we should take heart and press ahead with this challenge because Africa - as we have learnt in recent years - is a continent rich in human and economic resources; a genuine partner.
In the field of Alzheimer's disease there is a need for accurate data, which can only be collected at EU level, to allow for planning and adaptation of health services at Member State level.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Parish, and the three parliamentary committees that examined the report for their efforts and their comments.
The Commission was right to issue a communication on the hazardous and harmful consumption of alcohol and its harmful health consequences.
These amendments are important, and it has been said very clearly, Mrs van den Burg, that no one can prevent a Member from proposing amendments to a document or to a resolution.
Let us hope that Europe gradually discovers solidarity.
However, pesticides can only be used without close monitoring of both their quantity and quality if a reliable database is available.
We always take into account the need to increase the coverage of the public register, and I hope you also know my personal commitment to this.
We should not forget about the toxic effects of sports betting either, as even now Europe is affected by a terrible match-fixing scandal, unfortunately associated with this issue.
(PT) Our rapporteur, and in this case also the European Commission, deserve all our congratulations.
This in particular fosters the development of people-to-people contacts.
It is the most unequal society in South-East Asia.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on Monday night you had a debate following media reports that the Italian authorities would be fingerprinting the inhabitants of nomad camps.
Instead of travelling to compatriots' meetings, perhaps you could think about activities that do not antagonise the nations of Europe?
The Commission is proposing in this communication that, according to Article 50(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005, the 'other less-favoured areas' be defined in accordance with objective criteria.
Lastly, Madam President, those of us on the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and on his appointment.
I think some of the pieces will easily fall into place when we have this perspective.
If we want to remain a competitive economy, we will have to rely on innovation, creativity and brand exclusivity.
Now it is not enough to ban illegal trade in wood: the importing of products and furniture manufactured from illegally lumbered wood must also be banned.
The British Government does not want to confront that fact.
We must also stress, however, that the judgment of the Federal Administrative Court in Germany means and has emphasised for Germany that the local authorities are duty bound to act in any case.
The second reason we are expressing our disappointment and which particularly concerns us as the European Parliament is the poor figure cut by the European Union at the Copenhagen Summit.
Free global trade is the key to economic prosperity for all the countries of the world, particularly the poorest.
EU trade policy exposes us to sudden price rises, and competition policy has led to a monopoly on sales and to overpricing.
Prices are among the main screening indicators.
The reports about the tragedies unfolding at our external borders are as plain as day.
It was able to lead the negotiations, call a vote and involve the Member States.
That is why we should support this resolution.
This would be good news, as until Europe strengthens its common institutions by solidly uniting their fragments, it will continue to run the risk of finding itself suffocating in the vacuum of irrelevance.
If the Eastern Partnership winds up merely providing new packaging for the same old content, then we should not be surprised if we fail in the East.
We voted on the CAP yesterday and we need to realise that environmental cross-compliance, for example, is highly complicated.
I would urge the Commission to ensure that the same standards and regulations are applied in Brazil as currently exist in Europe to ensure a level playing field for all.
Instead of a response to the serious social problems of poverty and unemployment, what they are proposing are measures that will exacerbate the social situation and the glaring inequalities that already exist.
Discrimination on the basis of ethnic or racial origin is forbidden both in the labour market and outside it.
Turkey still refuses to recognise all the present Member States of the European Union and to honour the obligations it is required to fulfil under the framework of the customs union.
In other words, one of the fundamental principles of criminal procedure is being completely overturned.
That is why it is our task to put that into practice.
The external consultants have estimated that this measure could generate savings of up to EUR 5.8 billion per year.
I believe, and many of you have emphasised, that prevention means eradicating hatred and eliminating the reasons for hatred, without ever justifying violence, since the gravest risk we run is to begin justifying violence.
I hope that our joint efforts will be rewarded with a constructive spirit and a desire for compromise among all our institutions.
(SV) Mr President, on Saturday, the people of Iceland said a resounding no to the Icesave agreement.
Product storage and administrative costs must be managed efficiently so that they do not exceed 20-25% of the market price.
Are they unable to participate even in a debate on that?
Measures have been adopted that have had direct effects on the security and freedom of citizens, and which have also opened up new possibilities to them.
It was an expression of our diversity of opinion in Europe and of our European democracy, and in a democracy it is ultimately the majority that counts.
Airlines may no longer con consumers by advertising flights - especially on the Internet - at ridiculous fares of, for instance, EUR 9.99, and then face them with large extras in the form of taxes and charges.
The Director-General has recently addressed it and the trade ministers, too, but we want it to be recognised, which is why we are putting forward very specific proposals, for instance in relation to the appeal body and on dispute settlement.
Obviously tobacco subsidies have been a huge source of revenue for farmers for many years, a sort of social security policy that did not deserve the name.
That is a very important matter for European socialists.
Improvement needed in the legal framework for access to documents following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty (vote)
According to World Health Organisation data, interpersonal violence and suicide rank respectively third and fourth worldwide among people aged 15-44 years as the leading causes of ill-health and premature mortality.
Given the EIB's capital base, no more money can be forthcoming.
The core of this item for me is how to achieve concrete improvements in the situation in Tibet.
This is why I want to stress that Latin America is a strategic partner with which Europe must extend its economic and cultural influence even further.
The Presidency is aiming to reach an agreement on these questions as early as the first quarter of 2008.
To finish, I want to say that this is a matter of extreme importance.
This has meant that the concept has been broadened to the point of distorting its original nature.
State Secretary, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all have to cope with this crisis in some manner or other.
This is what we are here today to ask for; this is what we are here to demand.
Firstly, I strongly believe we need a broad and coherent strategy on Roma inclusion and we also need an action plan with clear benchmarks and appropriate budgeting.
I would like to stress that there is no evidence to show that the death penalty has a deterrent effect on violent crime.
Mr President, the persecution of Christians and other religious minorities is growing in Islamic countries.
Emissions must be restricted to the level required to keep global warming down to less than two degrees Celsius. This means that the bids currently on the table are not enough.
I would like to thank all who have contributed to the work on this matter, for I am convinced that what we have done will lay the basis for EU cooperation in the future.
Drugs finance the Taliban, while the resulting lawlessness and violence facilitate poppy cultivation.
The Ugandan legislation in force already criminalises homosexuality.
It is a good report, which, among other things, stipulates that economic freedoms and competition rules should never prevail over fundamental social rights.
We say to the Burmese Government: the world is not against you if only you will stop turning your back against the world.
I never thought my German colleagues would be much more conservative (with a small 'c', as in 'resistant to change') than myself.
I also congratulate the French Presidency for its involvement in adopting the Third Maritime Safety Package 'Erika III' through conciliation.
Mr President, coming from a science background myself, I welcome this important discussion on women in the field of science and technology.
It is also a very diversified sector.
If it is not positive, I think that the vote is likely to be negative - that is the opinion of my group, in any case.
After 2009 we will have no additional human resources, so we will be careful to tell you not to ask us to do a lot of new things, because we will not have the manpower to deal with it.
I agree with Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf that the increase in prices is a good thing, but who is going to be affected by this price increase?
Afterwards, you told us 'well, nobody can stop me seeing the Dalai Lama on the quiet in Gdańsk'.
Is fear of the people so great that the Council and the Commission think it better to keep them in the dark?
The EU should do something about it!
No deadlines have been set and, above all, no concrete resources and conditions have been established to tackle a scourge that affects more than 6 billion human beings.
There is also regulation of the retail sector: the Commission is due to submit a report to the European Council next December.
This means that there is widespread illegality, which cannot be tolerated as it generates a strong distortion of competition between companies and territories and makes work and workers less secure.
It is also obvious that my party and I would like to revoke the Schengen Agreement.
As you know, the Commission has been asked to prepare a follow-up report in June 2011, and that will be another opportunity to further develop our thinking together.
It seems crucial to institutionalise an intercultural dialogue at various levels in the right format and with a wide selection of participants, while still allowing for a real exchange of views.
I am a Member of Parliament, I have a question down for answer here.
EU research ministers set up a long-term public-private partnership in February with the aim of getting hydrogen and fuel-cell technology ready for the market between 2015 and 2025.
It is indeed a European problem, as the Commissioner rightly says.
Again, as the Presidency has said, in response to the gravity of the situation the local ambassador of the EU Presidency has been recalled for consultations and all other EU ambassadors have also left the country.
Have the partners to date handled their commitments, economic or otherwise, in the proper manner?
I would therefore like to make an appeal for good manners and for greater sensitivity towards each other.
The last estimate was EUR 20 billion, which is quite a lot to anybody.
First of all, I do not think that it is right to compare them.
Each EU Member State is an autonomous member of the UN and therefore has the right to express its own opinion.
We need to get a publicity offensive under way now and not leave the second referendum to the populists.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - (DA) Mr President, excuse me, but this report is not good, and neither has the work process in connection with it been good.
The important fact is that the sanctions have been extended for 12 months because no investigation has been carried out into the Andijan massacre and the meetings of experts on the matter have not produced any result.
It is only through adopting a clear, effective law that we will be able to issue a strong message to suppliers indicating that we will not tolerate the illegal timber trade in the EU.
However, the news coming out of the valley in the last month reports closing of barbershops, banning of music and disabling of satellite television receivers.
I appreciate the Spanish Presidency's support and I hope that this will serve as a good precedent for a new phase of cooperation between our institutions.
The root of this is in the 9/11 attacks on the United States.
They requested the Commission to solve the political impasse of the work time directive, the directive on temporary agencies and the directive on transferability of pension rights.
The second part relates to seasonal workers.
This agreement will incentivise EU foreign direct investment in Ukraine by cutting red tape and bringing transparency as well as helping exporters and service providers on both sides, by bringing our relations closer and sharing our standards.
Let me say a word also about the ESDP, which the rapporteur mentioned.
Nine months to commit appropriations is a long time, because this is by definition an emergency situation.
- (DE) Madam President, it is perfectly simple.
We must begin with the efficiency of buildings, vehicles, fridges and so on.
We are also dealing with over-regulation, with a view to simplifying the regulatory regime that is in place.
They reported flagrant obstruction of the opposition during the electoral campaign and harassment of independent journalists and human-rights activists.
Nevertheless, it does give internet users legal means of defending themselves.
We also know that it would be possible to increase fish stocks by 86% if fish were not caught in such a drastic way.
It is beneficial to the EU to have stable and economically strong neighbours.
It is necessary to seek a balanced relationship with these countries too, especially where European interests are involved.
Harassment of national minorities is part of the political practice in undemocratic regimes.
The question of food provision has now become absolutely crucial, as has the future of small farmers who are all too often neglected by development aid policies.
There are, however, cases when the ingredient indicated on the label is not exactly the same as the one really used in the food, for example 'Parma ham' not really coming from Parma.
I hope we can come back to this subject within six to twelve months to see if the system is functioning.
I am sure the Minister will take that message back to Prague.
Yes, I do say innovation because I am convinced that we will emerge from the crisis only if we use new resources and make massive investment in the knowledge-based economy, and in research and development.
Far from being a reactionary relegation of women to a role of subordination to men, it is a way to rehabilitate the family within society, giving equal rights to men, too.
It will make it much easier for people to purchase and also create a sense of European union without creating the superstate that the good Earl is somewhat concerned about.
I will conclude by once again thanking the rapporteur and the other groups for their cooperation, and for the high level of commitment to European transport.
So we are looking at possible ways in terms of alleviation of the State aid rules, as we have done in the past.
I look forward to continuing not only our discussions, but especially our cooperation on this important issue.
This would only have a divisive effect and weaken the position of the countries in the South that do not have the financial or personal means at their disposal to attend all these meetings.
The right of the Palestinians to live in a free territory, administered by itself, in peace, democracy and respect for human rights is also inalienable.
This is one of the principal reasons why I support Mr Őry's report.
I am delighted to say that the report also clearly acknowledges the favourable impact of EU cohesion policy on the development of coastal regions.
For this reason, the resolution of the Greens calls for no further political capital to be invested in the dead Doha Round.
The Commission also backs the ILO efforts to end forced-labour practices used for military and infrastructural programmes.
Therefore, I here turn to the Vice-President of the European Commission, Jacques Barrot, and ask him to intervene without delay in order to unblock this situation.
There was good cooperation and she asks the House to approve the package as a whole.
Agenda for next sitting: see Minutes
Mr Vondra, that is the condition we have to meet if we are to reduce somewhat the very high migration pressure on some of the Member States, for some of whom it is causing problems.
I was very pleased to note that there is such a large consensus on these issues - as indeed there was in the Council among Ministers last November.
It is yet another - I would say positive - step in the further development of mutual trust between Member States during their cooperation on criminal matters.
Let the Member States determine for themselves how they wish to fill their syllabuses.
The intended proposals for a revision of the financial regulation, a new financial framework and a reformed budget will provide opportunities for doing so during the mandate of the new Commission.
(PL) Mr President, East Timor recently won its independence fighting for its Catholic identity.
Of course I welcome an agency of European regulators where national regulators are working together, but let us not forget that quite often the regulators who are best placed to understand local circumstances are national regulators.
Thanks to the consistent actions of Wim Duisenberg, Jean-Claude Trichet and the likes, the euro has become the world's second reserve currency in 10 years.
Therefore, the Presidency will from now on concentrate primarily on the remaining sections regarding relations with partners, security and data security, budgetary provisions, i.e. monitoring and evaluation, and transitional and final provisions.
We must therefore review the existing preventive programmes and measures and create new ones to cover every eventuality.
And what mechanism - I know democracy is not popular with you lot - what mechanism do the peoples of Europe have to remove you?
Nevertheless, the Commission President says that ratification is to continue.
Another key argument in their favour is that they reduce dependence on particular sources of energy, whilst the number of people deprived of basic energy services is increasing.
We need to encourage more research and development, improved higher education and better vocational training, as President Barroso has just emphasised.
The experience acquired in space technologies - notably through the success of the Ariane rocket - in itself justifies implementing a real European space policy.
One of the serious difficulties in our efforts to protect our citizens comes in the failure to control our borders; terrorists come and go and continued uncontrolled immigration is a major obstacle to the proper integration of our settled immigrants.
This may lead to an EU contribution between EUR 2 billion and EUR 15 billion annually in 2020.
(EL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of counterfeiting, of imitation, is a legal problem with obvious financial repercussions.
In other words, national healthcare services need to be delivered appropriately.
I would like to ask the Commission to consider how generally binding quality criteria can be set.
This calls for greater dynamism and a more significant role for the European institutions, including this Parliament and all those listening today.
Also the recent sinking of a South Korean naval vessel was undoubtedly a deliberate attack by the North.
This is a very ambitious and very important directive.
In the field addressed by your question, therefore, you will see that many important decisions have been announced in recent weeks or are now being implemented.
The European Commission's new Safer Internet Programme proposes allocating EUR 55 million to the fight against conduct on the internet which is harmful to children and young people.
However, there is a third issue that has now come to the fore.
If necessary, the Council and the EU Member States must tighten their sanctions.
The euro area has become a rock of macroeconomic stability.
But it was obvious in many cases that the existing weaknesses are not connected to the European legal framework but to the absence of implementation or the inadequate, copy-pasted transposition thereof into national legislation.
I congratulate the rapporteur and look forward to reviewing the impact of the Directive in the future.
In general, the systems serve a twofold purpose, though the more important of the two is undoubtedly to state the product's actual country of origin.
Mr President, when three young activists are mentioned as being subject to forcible army conscription, one of them at least is the son of the opposition leader, Mr Viačorka.
I therefore welcome the Commission's activities in this area in promoting cross-border loss relief measures.
Let us ask ourselves about the political priorities set by the budget: do they really improve the lives of citizens?
These two approaches contradict each other.
It contributes decisively to creating a European sense of belonging and is one of the most successful and effective European development policies.
It is in times such as the current financial crisis that we need to make the consumption and production of natural resources and products more cost effective and efficient.
That is why I specifically and strongly welcome the measures that have been taken thus far, as we are now on the right path to creating greater competition and improved access to important information.
I do not see any official apologies, so we must take the necessary measures to defend Parliament's staff.
I agree with your idea that the Global Programme Management Board must not be an assembly.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the conclusions of her report, which I fully endorse.
I think that the priority for the Spanish in the next term must be the reform of the common fisheries policy and for decisions like this to be taken at regional level by local, accountable people, and not Brussels bureaucrats.
I suggest that the Member States reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to a minimum when applying for a visa and set up a simplified system for granting visas to students and to civil society actors.
An important element in this process is the assessment of vocational education and training itself.
Our common judicial area must be an area where victims feel treated with dignity, respect and a high standard of protection and support, not only in one domain but in many domains.
As regards the external representation of the EU, Baroness Ashton does not have the required skills and has not seemed intent on committing herself, as we have seen with the Haiti tragedy.
Then we will have taken a big step towards making the wish that people really would learn from the past come true.
I have listened to everyone and I do not think that there is a single one of you who did not support the need to reduce the amount and complexity of administration burdening what we call 'micro-entities'.
This compromise means that the quotas that already exist will be used more efficiently.
I once again condemn the fact that some of them are criticising the procedure that has been used.
Denmark, whose labour market is similar to the Swedish market, has more than two health and safety inspectors per 10 000 inhabitants.
We welcome some positive developments, namely the good political announcement made by the new Prime Minister of Japan - I have personally congratulated him - but so far, it is a political announcement.
Mr President, in the northern part of European Cyprus, on the Kyrenia mountain range, there is a mammoth one-kilometre-long Turkish flag, not an EU flag, to be seen.
In order that all citizens should benefit from the same protection, I hope that, following the submission of this study by the European Commission, we shall encourage Member States to come to an agreement on this matter.
This is a bold exaggeration, Mr Cappato.
This ensures the necessary priority attention at political level.
Mr Lobo Antunes, I wish you every success with the informal summit which will perhaps be one of the most important we have had in recent years in the European Union.
I think that, if you say that there is an absolute ban on asbestos in Europe, you have to be consistent with that and allow no exemptions.
In fact, it is something from Russia.
Mr President, please treat this as a small token of appreciation for your excellent work.
Indeed, we were both in agreement that the world's most advanced legislation on chemicals which we adopted in the REACH regulation must not lead to such a sharp increase in the number of animals used for experimental purposes.
In addition, we condemn the illegal arrests which are being made and demand the release of Farai Maguwu.
In addition, this will put the European economy under even further pressure compared with its competitors in America and Asia, where no initiatives of this kind are planned.
The conclusion of the free trade agreement will encourage the Gulf states to be more receptive to the views of their European partners and will thus enable us to diversify and accelerate our trade and exchanges.
One example states that Member States may take appropriate measures to stem patient flows.
It wishes to establish close cooperation so that our three institutions can really offer each other mutual support.
We wanted to send out a strong message to the citizens by ensuring that the treaty was ratified for the European elections of June 2009.
Have no fear, I shall not read the entire letter.
I consider this a fundamental error regardless of which side believes it.
Scotland being a major potential source of energy production, especially in renewable sources, the Commission should prioritise projects and initiatives which will assist in developing Scotland's massive potential as a supplier of clean green energy.
It is worth noting that in the last few years several democratic electoral processes have taken place in Venezuela.
Parliament is free to appoint either external personalities or Members and it will be Parliament's responsibility to choose its preferred level of representation on the Governing Board.
We, of course, actively support this objective which will benefit SMEs.
Obsolete legislation in the cosmetics industry poses a special threat to health and the extent to which we can rely on the law.
The current crisis situation is making Member States focus greater attention on setting their priorities and strategic guidelines for development.
After the technical assessments, we will be able to give a response on that point.
First, lowering the costs involved in cutting emissions would give a much-needed breather to national budgets, which the Member States are currently struggling to balance.
(FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is in this time of crisis that the value and usefulness of structures will be shown, and this crisis is showing us that the Europe of Brussels is no use at all.
(DE) Mr President, we have the Lisbon Strategy and hopefully we are now to have the Lisbon Treaty too, and both will move Europe forward.
The European Council invites the Council, in cooperation with the Commission, to examine initiatives to be taken to this end, in particular as regards diversification of energy sources and supply routes.
According to the revised rules, if the committee responsible fails to reach a consensus on the admissibility of the petition, it is declared admissible at the request of at least one quarter of the members of the committee.
The greatest potential is in towns, where 90% of all car journeys are less than 6 km long and which therefore offer an ideal opportunity to take a bus or train or go by bicycle or on foot.
This is, however, only the beginning, as Naša Vjasna, which has a human rights agenda, and several other organisations devoted to the development of democracy also await registration.
I simply must ask you to do that; it is really vital.
You have done some very good preparatory work and you have introduced important improvements in the welfare of laboratory animals, such as prior authorisation and follow-up checks for all tests.
Citizens and companies do not take kindly to the fact that the control mechanisms of Member States are totally insufficient, and they are rightly calling for more effective measures at the European level, including big fines for counterfeiters.
Loss of the idea of belonging to a Union based firmly on solidarity is one of the major risks of European integration.
This will provide the elements required for a suitable evaluation of the market situation in the milk sector.
Then, the challenges which we are posing for the future in this resolution - which we support - will be easier to achieve.
Regrettably, renewed pressure on civil society and a number of particularly harsh and disproportionate sentences have ruined this positive atmosphere.
(PL) Mr President, as one of the pillars of the European Union the internal market is subject to constant change.
It would be a scandal which I cannot bring myself to endorse.
If Europe takes no action and comes to no view, then we will be left out of the international debate - our vote today is a mandate instead for Europe to help lead this debate.
Our Group believes that Europe must use the means that it has available, and in particular its political and economic tools, to put pressure on Russia and make it respect the agreements that it has signed.
If we want to make trade freer, the aim of all these efforts - both here and in our neighbouring countries to the south - must be to combat unemployment.
in writing. - I support this Report which makes recommendations on a broad range of issues including discrimination, immigration, social rights and gender equality.
There will be more staff to liaise between the European Parliament and national parliaments, which is essential, even though the numbers involved are small.
It is essential that our actions are consistent.
Mr President, the accession of the EU to the Transport Protocol of the Alpine Convention is a small but perfectly formed piece in the jigsaw of a new transport policy in Europe.
The report also states, among other things, that it is necessary to draw back from the policy of stimulation packages and from securing the liquidity of the banks, which was the main so-called unconventional measure for overcoming the crisis.
Finally, the best directive in the world can only be effective if it is accompanied by real checking mechanisms.
I would like to start by saying that I think it is important to point out that the telecoms package, as it stands today prior to the vote, is essentially a good one.
I hope that we all - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - are up to this challenge.
Accordingly, this study will help us to prepare the next steps. In my opinion, the volunteering sector is growing enormously, both in qualitative and quantitative terms.
Investment to increase energy efficiency will create millions of jobs and will contribute to the growth of the EU economy.
One recent case, for example, was that of 17-year-old Mosleh Zamani in December 2009.
Forty years on, sadly, little seems to have changed.
Our forecasts in a few weeks are going to be revised downwards.
I would also like us to work together to ensure that justice is done for these victims and that the case is closed fairly.
They also need investment in the information technology sector, to make young people more familiar with new technologies.
The size and thickness of the lettering mentioned in the Commission's proposal are insufficient.
Labour MEPs emphasise that authorities across the EU must remain vigilant and cooperate against all risks of crime, match-fixing, and threats to young people and the vulnerable from all forms of gambling.
For these reasons I support the amendment in favour of the third option, which guarantees non-discriminatory network access.
From the point of view of feasibility it is an important concept, provided, of course, that it does not significantly damage the environment.
I believe that these proposals enhance the quality of the regulation, strengthen its internal logic and the practicality of the solution.
in writing. - (RO) The European Institute of Technology has the ability to reduce innovation gaps between the European Union and its external competitors and to gain the interest of millions of young researchers all over Europe.
Thank you very much, colleagues, for putting forward questions for discussion.
In spite of the efforts made to combat inequality between men and women, none of the goals of the Beijing +15 Platform for Action have been fully realised.
The proposed draft regulations aim to create a secure environment and to remove existing blockages from the system.
They do not care about the environment any more than about the health of their employees and customers, or that these may be children.
We are all very much aware of the geostrategic and economic significance that the Galileo programme and EGNOS have for the European Union.
We must not confuse our responsibility for reacting quickly and managing the crisis with an even greater responsibility - that our rules must work, not only in this crisis period but also for the benefit of Europe's future growth.
The very cross border nature of human trafficking means that this is an issue where the EU's institutions have a key role to play and I therefore welcome today's resolution.
The document drafted by the rapporteur is very necessary, not only for us, but for the whole of the European Union.
Another essential objective is therefore to try to harmonise the rules.
We in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe support the result of the vote in the Committee on Budgets.
The crisis will make no difference: Europe is blinded by its dogmatism and deaf to its citizens' demands.
The Armenian genocide is not mentioned at all, which differentiates this report from earlier resolutions from Parliament.
If the market is not able to ensure this, it should be done through appropriate policy.
For all these reasons I urge the plenary to support this report and the Council, and to support Parliament's position.
Many things needed to be said, and many details spelled out, but since much of this no longer serves any purpose it is a good idea for us to divest ourselves of these rules and adapt them.
We recognise that tax fraud is a serious problem and that it needs to be tackled with great urgency, and in particular that a solution needs to be found to the so called "carousel" fraud in respect of VAT.
Mr President, it is curious that, whatever the crisis, the answer in this House always seems to be greater European integration.
Regarding cloning, I have heard Parliament's views and I will have an in-depth look at whether the novel food regulation is the right instrument to deal with animal cloning as this issue goes beyond the scope of this regulation.
(PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of Europe's demographic future has merited significant attention from this Parliament.
All the moves so far towards your European superstate have taken place by stealth or manipulation and, in the case of the Lisbon Treaty, the manipulation has been so shameless and so blatant that the Treaty lacks democratic legitimacy.
In addition, the GHS introduces standardised definitions, such as LD50 (lethal dose 50), that clearly indicate the hazard associated with the substance.
I am particularly delighted that two group chairmen have honoured us with their presence here at noon today.
They have been particularly important during recent difficult economic times.
Despite full support for the European Commission, notably on the part of the countries that acceded to the Union in 2004 and 2007, the talks have collapsed.
However, in order to ensure that aircraft operators with varying initial positions and growth trends, are treated equally, we ought to reserve part of the quotas for aircraft operators with rapidly growing capacity.
I think this situation - one of a certain crisis in relations between Parliament and the Council - points to the need for the European Parliament to put greater pressure on the Council concerning greater transparency over budgetary expenditure.
It may also have been possible to renegotiate the 100% financing of the European Structural Funds with the Council.
Homogenous markets are at the centre of this problem.
For this reason, if it is to be effective, the information must be clear and accessible and must only contain the essential facts.
Continuous education and language learning as well as opportunities for re-training must be available to all interested women.
We call on the Government of Bangladesh to lift the state of emergency and respect human rights, which will help to maintain democratic standards during the course of the elections.
If we look at the consultation document, it lists tomorrow's challenges as diversity, scientific and technical progress, the knowledge economy, climate change, energy security, but it does not mention food security.
However, this report by Mrs Keller sometimes has a tendency to be either excessive or vague in its wording.
So there were a lot of worries and a lot of real concerns and mainly, I would say, a lack of information and a need for their concerns to be taken seriously.
But there is a particular issue which has arisen, certainly in my Member State and perhaps in yours, Mr President.
Establishment of residue limits of pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin (
If our appeals and our efforts are to meet with success, we also require additional measures and, in particular, investment in job creation.
I urge you, also, to encourage and promote the rule of law in my country, so that all citizens of Sudan can enjoy their individual and collective rights.
There are still too many areas that remain under national company law, resulting in overlapping levels and multiplication of costs.
That is a moral scandal and a huge stain on our collective conscience.'
Another thing which we are bound to see happen again is that investors will be encouraged to speculate on rising food prices, for example.
Today, however, the Palestinians are divided both politically and physically.
Admittedly, some efforts have been made, but corruption is a genuine blight and the Cyprus issue remains unresolved, not to mention the fact that there is a lot of work to do in relations with the Armenians.
EMAS is a voluntary scheme, which provides a framework to assist businesses and organisations to improve their environmental performance.
It is only right and proper that small butchers' shops, for example, should be able to continue to operate in future too.
Your report argues that the EU needs to strengthen its capacity to make its views on accounting matters heard at the international level.
(DE) Mr President, car manufacturing is one of Europe's key industries.
For my own country, this means that it is not acceptable for Goethe to be available in Polish and French, but not in the original German.
The Tagliavini commission rightly criticises the mass provision of Russian passports to Georgian citizens in Abkhazia and South Ossetia as being contrary to international law.
That is precisely the issue at stake here.
I voted in favour of this report because it clarifies important points regarding the standards required for issuing biometric passports.
I would like the Commission to be rather proactive in trying to push the Member States to cooperate in different locations.
It is therefore our duty to protect those sections of society in view of their heightened vulnerability in economic terms.
When that ship docks in the EU, if even a small trace of GM soya is found, even if that soya has been licensed in the EU, the whole cargo can be turned away.
The problem is that we are not able to respond to them sufficiently, at least not always quickly enough.
Mr Caldeira, the President of the Court of Auditors, also remarked that the position of the Court in its technical functions is to attend the Budgetary Control Committee meeting, but to stay in the background in political debates at plenary.
We know that once Lisbon is adopted we will have clearer instruments and we will then be able to implement them.
These projects will allow us to test the working methods used during joint operations and to test relations with third countries for return operations and the acquisition of travel documents.
They are exposed, on a long-term basis, to mixtures or cocktails of pesticides that are sprayed in their locality throughout the year and, in many cases, for decades.
We welcome the gradual re-engagement that has taken place over the past year, since the EU-Uzbekistan Cooperation Council agreed to establish a regular human rights dialogue, the first round of which was in May this year.
The European Union, as you know, only accounts for 13% of global emissions.
We have managed to get support for dairy producers included in the budget at the European Parliament's request.
That is why this report argues in favour of adding a thirteenth indicator to the Paris Agenda.
I would also like to underline this issue of strong demand for solidarity, not only solidarity between the generations, which we have dealt with several times in this House, but solidarity between different regions.
My Member State, the United Kingdom, has got off the hook.
Secondly, we need to act to improve risk management and economic governance.
The EU also needs a strong voice in matters which concern energy policy and solidarity, for example.
On this matter, we have also made some requests.
in writing. - (FR) The directive on the legal protection of designs and models, as submitted to the House, proposes complete liberalisation of the market in component parts, notably in the motor vehicles sector.
Member States have ratified the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea.
(DE) Mr President, consumer protection is a very, very important matter for me and therefore I am against consumers being misled or deceived in any way.
The penalty for the same offence in different Member States varied from EUR 500 to EUR 5 000.
Incidentally, I deeply regret the abstention in the parliamentary committee, on such an important report, by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
She has great expertise, which I think has worked through in this.
(DE) Mr President, MON 810 was approved in the European Union in 1998.
As regards the publishing of the names of European funds beneficiaries, as well as of the global amounts they have received, I consider this to be a measure that obviously contributes to the transparency of the allocation system.
This requires the creation of the right technical, practical and economic conditions.
Our action plan focuses on developing a coherent global airport policy.
Poles have stood against the death penalty on many occasions.
You are right: we must act quickly and effectively, while respecting the rights of those whose data are exchanged, retained and stored.
in writing. - (DE) The SPD Members of the European Parliament have rejected the report for two reasons:
(PL) The discussion on investing in low-carbon technologies is a discussion about methods of adapting the economies of Member States to the requirements for limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
I am outraged by the way this proposal runs counter to the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises by introducing, from this day forward, unfair competition from false self-employed drivers.
The Anti-Discrimination Directive is something this plenary voted for and the Greens are really waiting for that.
That is why in France they said 'no', and in Holland they said 'no', and in Ireland they said 'no', and if we had a vote in Britain an overwhelming majority of us would have said 'no'.
This is an important instrument for tackling the economic crisis, reviving the economy and hence creating jobs.
All these have consequences for security, water consumption, the soil, agriculture, but also, clearly, for public health.
I would like to highlight two specific issues: first, public funding.
The most important aspect here is not the length of time a holder of a D category visa visits another Member State but the opportunity itself to better meet his needs within the Schengen area.
No, it makes things even worse.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for a very comprehensive answer.
Madam President, I think it is absolutely amazing how the ECB has delivered the main point of the mandate: price stability.
What we need today is economic governance.
I have received requests for help, not only from our 20 000 strong federation of winegrowers but also from the federations of winegrowers in Spain, France, Italy and Germany which belong to the Assembly of European Wine Regions (AREV).
Besides, as politicians, we must seek criticism, because it is only through criticism that we can improve, see the issues more clearly and thus reach solutions that benefit the community.
(DA) Mr President, last Friday, the Irish voted 'no' to the Treaty of Lisbon, a poor copy of the Constitution to which France and the Netherlands also voted 'no'.
Mr Gallagher and Mr Aylward gave particular support to the amendments which sought further transparency and which recommended providing the reports of the Internal Audit Service to the public.
That was also why the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament voted this morning in favour of the urgent procedure that was put before us.
In any case, trust in my experience when I say that, in future, there must be no more periods in which the Commission provides no real governance, especially when they last for as long as six months.
So it is no wonder that things went excessively far when people broke through the various fences and walls between Egypt and Gaza.
A young, 24-year-old Spanish police officer, Raúl Centeno, died instantly and a second police officer, Fernando Trapero, aged 23, was seriously injured and died last Wednesday.
Research today shows that there are already initiatives aimed at pre-diagnosis.
We need to define together actions at European Union level to complement national actions with positive social impact.
This is a major and serious public health issue, as farmers clearly cannot control pesticides once they are airborne, and studies have shown pesticides can travel in the air for miles.
Fourth, on the question of Israel: there are two important issues following the elections.
The 30% emissions reduction target will now appear in the legal text, following the international agreement.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the excellent report by my fellow Member Mr Albertini on sustainable European transport policy, taking into account European energy and environment policies.
The proposal was in the spirit of these principles, and for that reason I support the report prepared under the guidance of Mr Silva Peneda.
This will allow the EU to develop a role as a world leader, showing that it is possible to combine economic dynamism with social and environmental concerns.
For six months, we have been calling on the European Central Bank to change its policy.
Italy, as German economists at the time said, should never have joined the euro, but the situation in Greece is, I think, where we should focus our attention.
We cannot sweep aside the judgment of Hague prosecutor Carla Del Ponte that the Serbian Government has deliberately failed to deliver Mladić and Karadžić to justice.
They should be made uniform and as close as possible to zero throughout all the EU countries.
Thirdly, the appropriate measures contained in the report on health care also require additional financial resources.
Policy must lend itself to implementation, and so simplification is in order.
Let us refrain from becoming anti-tobacco ayatollahs, as a Socialist Minister in France once implored me.
According to the current legislation, it is only compulsory to act against soil pollution when the pollution enters other elements of the environment: groundwater, fresh water, agricultural products, or when it is too late to act in practice.
Its growing economy provides opportunities for EU companies.
The European Union has always been consistent in seeking to strengthen cooperation between states in order to prove and prosecute crimes against humanity.
The fact is, however, that the quota system expires in 2015.
He has been one of the most assiduous ministers we have known.
The single market will never be delivered, and the ERTMS will never happen.
Safety requires time, and the review is now taking longer than initially planned.
I believe that we should not be aiming to promote a hierarchy of discrimination in the EU.
We must move away from protectionism and the market-distorting measures that are built into the current system.
As regards the 2020 strategy, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the European Commission has really grasped the essence of our European social model.
That should certainly be improved in a subsequent report.
The Commission's paper will be finalised this year and the Hungarian Presidency will see some hot debates.
Amending the interoperability and safety directives prompted us to carry out two further operations.
Unfortunately, it will only be a number of years down the line before we are able to learn about the effects on people's health of using these scanners.
In an open market you need that kind of thing to ensure that trains can operate anywhere and that borders are no longer an obstacle.
It meant liberty and equality for the people and fraternity amongst all the people.
In our dialogue with China we are under an obligation to openly and sincerely espouse our common values of democracy, law, human rights and freedom of opinion, based on the fundamental principle of human dignity.
I would also particularly like to add my support to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner who, at the last moment, has been prevented from joining us this evening.
The internal auditor has urged the Council to abolish these accounts, but without success.
The European Parliament and European citizens are not being kept up-to-date about progress in the negotiations.
This matter was particularly safe in her hands.
in writing. - (RO) The population of Roma origin, wherever they are in the EU Member States, must be treated with the respect that all the European citizens deserve.
It should also be noted that the financial resources of the Seventh Framework Programme were cut by 30% following the agreement on the Financial Perspective.
I do not believe that Lebanon really has to choose between the American camp and the Syrian/Iranian camp.
This really encourages us to move forward with developing an increasingly essential common foreign policy on energy, as stressed by the motion for a resolution to be adopted today.
Many proposals have already been put forward and I believe that the Czech Presidency will likewise try to come up with an appropriate proposal.
What I do strongly oppose, however, is the federalist tone of various amendments.
It is particularly encouraging that the authorities in Priština acted with reasonable restraint.
It is essential, in planning future social policies, to focus on the idea of the welfare society, in which all of us, as citizens, have more responsibility and show more solidarity.
Today it is vital that this Parliament ensures the adoption of this directive, thus sending a clear message to European citizens that things are changing and will continue to change, and that we are particularly concerned about them.
So that they could say Mr Lambrinidis reads such and such a newspaper, so he must be a Communist or he must be pro-American.
My point is that Parliament's demands have in no way been met by either the Commission or the Council, and therefore I can only recommend that we now withhold our support for this.
Without a doubt, you and your government constitute an excellent educational aid as to why we want to make ourselves a state within the European Union.
The draft resolution is a step in this direction, which is why we are supporting it.
The communiqué makes a hypocritical affirmation of respect for the Irish rejection of Lisbon, and then immediately sets about insisting, through the coded language of these documents, that the Irish fall into line.
The developing world is not the author of the current financial and economic crisis.
Twenty years ago, we had an heroic movement of working people in those countries which brought down the Stalinist monolith.
It maintains that the right to take collective action is an important part of labour law.
The right of veto and representative government have been cut in 62 areas as against 61 in the Constitution.
We are all in agreement that we need to be sensible here, but you are right, Mr Beazley, that in general this sort of thing always backfires on the person responsible.
With the collapse of heavy industry, or its relocation to the Third World, industrial pollution has fallen, but motorisation has multiplied.
This is unacceptable, since the use of this product is responsible for a large number of illnesses linked to exposure to asbestos fibres.
Since I have recalled the long and difficult birth of this directive, I must mention the progress made as regards maternity protection for self-employed women and the spouses of self-employed workers.
Obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market (debate)
May I start by congratulating Hannes Swoboda on his report on Croatia.
At European level we deal with approximately five per cent of research money, so unless we join our forces at EU level - meaning Europe level - and avoid duplicating our efforts, we cannot count on real success.
Climate change will help to change consumer preferences and also relaunch the demand for cars.
After the numerous crises in recent years in connection with products of animal origin that pose a risk to human and animal health, a comprehensive statutory regulation is essential.
This report underlines the importance of creativity and innovation.
Special emphasis has been placed on the human rights aspects of this case.
This is very important, particularly in the light of the recent behaviour of some Heads of Government.
in writing. - (DE) Under the guise of combating terrorism, the account data of honest European citizens are being transferred in bulk to the United States.
Here we need to distinguish between consumer credit and micro-credit, for the two should not be confused.
Taking counterfeit medication is certainly not the same thing as using a fake perfume.
As far as managing emergencies is concerned, I agree with the idea of establishing a European Monetary Fund, which would be a sensible solution.
We have encountered the following problems: the three fundamental issues that we discussed with the Commission were transparency, resources and the length of procedures.
In the meantime, maintenance creditors, the large majority of them children, live in very poor circumstances and often do not even have money to survive.
Five years after Mikhail Khodorkovsky's arrest, he and other Yukos officials remain incarcerated under questionable circumstances.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
We are storing millions, even billions of data for 10 years for perhaps a handful of cases.
As you know, even European aid is no longer reaching Gaza.
The only ones to profit from all this cooperation are the big European companies.
I am convinced that this partnership between the private and public sectors will help to speed up the distribution of better and safer medicines.
He consistently ignored Parliament's suggestions in at least 10 different reports.
However, I believe that, if the motion is before me, I must hold a vote on it.
I strongly hope that the Accession Treaty for this country will be signed by this year.
In view of the occasion, I urge you to adopt both directives together.
We must be glad that, for administrative expenditure, we have a positive opinion, with low error rates and, from what we have been told, no fraud.
That brings me to my last point, which is the question of imagination.
Despite some populist measures against poverty when he was in government, Mr Thaksin represents the capitalist elite and deceives the masses.
That is the second core element of reinforced economic governance.
(PL) Mr President, I would like to support Mr Őry's report.
Our response could be even more efficient; it could be faster and more effective, as long as we are moving in the right direction.
I do not believe in FTAs as quick, political fixes.
They have their own reasons for this, one of which is undoubtedly that they do not see trade unions as having the clout to protect their interests.
The revision is still to be done, and we are of the opinion that we need a proper revision, which as such will then give the Works Council what it actually needs for its long-term work.
In fact, energy security means a loss of sovereignty in a European sector which has now become strategic.
It represents an important step on the road towards the third industrial revolution in Europe, to the transformation of our European national economies into national economies with low-CO2 production.
It accepts and welcomes all the reactionary principles and institutions which have been adopted by the EU, such as the four freedoms in the Maastricht Treaty, by trying to ascribe an effective dimension to their application.
I would not like to delete the truth now.
It is essential to build additional basic infrastructures, be they roads, schools, hospitals, etc.
The links between developing countries and the developed world are complex.
This model is intergovernmental and airspace is a national competence.
Consequently, the programme of the Czech Presidency attempts a proportional representation of the requirements of new Member States.
(DE) Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Martin on the content of this report, as these are issues on which we have reached an agreement and which must inevitably be addressed.
It is by this that 19 of the countries of our Union today have become members and part of the historic undertaking of our Union.
Does the Commission have plans for other programmes of this type in the future?
I am a native of the country from which the Antarctic explorer Bellingshausen set out.
The Union will remain vigilant; the European Council requests the Council, with the Commission, to conduct a careful in-depth examination of the situation and of the various aspects of EU-Russia relations; this evaluation must begin now and continue.
It is absolutely scandalous to try to reintroduce them surreptitiously through amendments to the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
The Committee on Culture and Education has, from the outset, taken this whole issue very seriously because we can no longer legislate on the electronic network or on radio spectrum whilst ignoring the real nature of the content being distributed.
It looks as though the leadership of your group is well aware of the situation.
There are already several promising projects in the area of local public transport, which mean that series production of hydrogen powered passenger cars is not far away at all.
Then, considering the current unfavourable economic situation we are living in, we have to think about the development of this network, or part of it, and not only with the budget resources that we have available.
There was, indeed, an urgent need for these, and I look forward confidently to a future in which waste separation and recycling will be practised to an ever-increasing extent throughout Europe.
We have to look at the entire supply chain and the entire car market which, of course, also includes the vehicle trade and vehicle repair shops.
Farmers in the different Member States must also be obliged to observe the same rules, and therefore it is important to ensure harmonious transposition of the management requirements set out in the Directives.
It now transpires, though, that the competent Commissioner, Mrs Hübner, with whom we would very much like to enter into debate on this issue, will be unable to attend.
Furthermore, we emphasise the argument for the need to respect 'fundamental rights, such as the right to freedom of expression and the right to privacy, while fully observing the principle of subsidiarity', as well as the protection of personal data.
That is precisely what they are doing - at the expense of passengers.
The European Council will therefore stress the key role of the EU at international conferences and its commitments.
Since I would like to allow my colleague from the PPE-DE Group, Professor Trakatellis, to use some of my speaking time, I will now conclude my introduction.
Have special public opinion soundings been taken in Europe by population category?
Health tourists will have to find the difference between the costs where treated and the home country's base of provision.
There is a great deal of uncertainty about the standards necessary to tackle climate change.
I find this a little fishy, even by the standards of this House, so I do not think she was the right and proper person to be rapporteur for this report.
As the United States is currently in a state of paralysis on account of its change of president, the EU must further increase its sense of duty.
The directive only requires Member States to introduce four procedures on road infrastructure safety management, and only concerns roads that are part of the TENs.
They play an important role in planning or following market trends.
We would like to thank Martin Schulz, who immediately visited our country and who, together with Giorgos Papandreou, took steps to communicate the situation and to secure European assistance.
Madam President, the generation of renewable energy from biogas is a positive development from an energy-supply perspective.
There are other serious issues that pose just as great a challenge to the public interest.
We were faced with two undesirable alternatives, either a shorter agreement with higher fish quotas or a longer agreement with lower fish quotas.
This will result in true European initiatives which will improve our regions in the long term.
The proposed citizens' initiative is in itself an extremely unclear proposal for citizens' influence in respect of elected politicians.
Decisions concerning certain documents: see Minutes
While preparing this communication, our departments have been paying close attention to the debates on bio-waste held in the European Parliament.
The outcome of this will be even more immigration and all the problems which that leads to.
The Commission has promised to draw up a new standard and I hope that it will keep its word.
Perhaps it can do so if it takes stronger measures than it has done so far.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to touch on a third main point of the European Council's agenda.
The State of Pakistan was artificially created as a home for the Muslim inhabitants of India, and it therefore has an Islamic identity, which is something we cannot now hold against it.
As a result of some of the policies in the common fisheries policy, thousands of tonnes of edible fish are dumped dead over the sides of fishing boats around our coasts.
But we should not be invoking the MFN clause if the Caribbean countries do a favourable deal with, say, a group of African countries.
This raises the act to a level very similar to that of a judgment.
Topics such as the Sustainable Development Strategy, the European Immigration Pact, Europe of Defence and the reform in the Common Agricultural Policy are crucial for Europe.
In order to improve future expectations from the European Schools, we must approach the sensitive issues challenging the current system and identify the problems in order to design the foreseeable changes.
Out of consideration for the environment and the economy, this pipeline should not be laid in the Baltic Sea, added to which are the security policy aspects.
I am very pleased to see these three texts subject to a vote today in order to establish your position at a first reading.
For us, permitting the sales and purchases of multibrand dealerships takes priority and is the main prerequisite for guaranteeing that consumers have adequate access to the services of the automobile sector.
It will certainly not resolve all of the human rights problems in Turkmenistan, but it will help to ensure that international standards are complied with more fully, particularly in the areas of the rule of law and human rights.
There is no switch that we can flick, not in Brussels nor in Bali nor in Poland in December; instead we have a whole host of measures.
I praise this report which represnents a useful framework of field-related conceptualisation for the new Member States of the European Union.
The fact that there is to be an expert panel for the problem of administrative burdens is an important step in the right direction.
The development of sustainable tourism is being used as a means to attribute an economic value to wilderness areas and to promote their conservation.
We have come through this nonsense of the hearings.
Similarly, urban transport initiatives and the Civitas and the Intelligent Energy-Europe programmes must be continued.
The European Union needs to carry weight on the international stage as a global player, in line with its economic, commercial, financial and industrial weight.
The first is that the long-term presidency of the Eurogroup, held by Mr Juncker, has brought improvements in the way in which this body operates.
I therefore welcome this package's aims, but I hope that we will not in the future be forced to repent the means that we have used.
This is our commitment towards our own citizens and towards the people of Egypt.
In this process, I would also warn about one desire, and will just mention one example of it.
France is requesting an 18-month extension accompanied by financial measures for those fishermen and ship-owners affected by a trade ban.
We now have to deal very seriously with this issue and make legal preparations to respond on a case-by-case basis to the US request.
(NL) Madam President, this House has just decided by a vast majority, after the committee did likewise, that under no circumstances may racial or ethnic origin or a number of other parameters be considered during the processing of personal data.
I would like to point out three topics in the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
Deep-water coral can be found off the west coast of the country.
(DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of the world economic crisis in which we currently find ourselves cannot yet be foreseen.
I ask this clear question: what pressure are we going to put on the United States, China and all the emerging countries?
In that context, will the Commission say what measures it will take to promote research in this field and give Europeans more and broader prospects of a career in the maritime sector?
FRONTEX is an essential instrument in immigration policy and has proven its necessity and efficiency.
Firstly, the development of the intelligent car must be in the interests of a clean environment.
Frankly speaking, the people of Macedonia deserve far better treatment from us.
However, I am not sure that the details underneath these major headings do justice to this positive-sounding approach.
According to a number of sources, the official death toll is around eighty thousand.
We hope that his mediation will contribute to a secure, peaceful and lasting solution to the situation in Guinea.
Officially, China has always strenuously denied all the allegations about the ankang system mentioned in my report.
Finally, I should like to reply to Mr Clark - though I think he has left - who asked whether or not there is global warming.
In fact, the systematic and sometimes brutal suppression of Tibetan culture has kindled the fire of Tibetan identity and awakened the world's conscience to the plight of the people of Tibet.
At the end of 2006, when we adopted the Progress programme here in this chamber, the Member States set their respective aims and began work.
Naturally, we must expect this operation not only to be approved but also supported by the local governments so that it is successful.
Many women are employed in research and development performing SMEs, whether directly or indirectly.
Stepping up the transition to low-carbon energy by switching to biofuels and renewable energy sources will foster innovation and increase industrial competitiveness.
I must thank the Parliament for its continued strong support.
I would also like to thank specifically our rapporteurs.
We need this integrated border management that Mr Coelho spoke of, and it is true that thought will now have to be given to a new mandate for FRONTEX.
We certainly do not intend to re-convert our existing landscapes into wild nature, but we need to publicly commit ourselves to preserving the last remaining wild areas of Europe.
However, as you know, there is still a long way to go before all of the commissioners and the Commission are up and running.
Member States have different solutions here.
China is a permanent member of the Security Council.
But EU rules must in no event mean that Member States which already regulate these matters properly have to face more bureaucracy or obstacles to dealing with them efficiently.
One of the most important aspects of the report, from a purely economic perspective, is that all forms of transport will be needed in the future, for both passengers and goods, in order to provide the necessary level of mobility.
Our fundamental values - and above all the comprehensive protection of human rights - cannot be put up for grabs in this so-called war on terror.
This does not necessarily mean more or stricter legislation and rules imposed by the EU.
As socialists, we now have the duty to go before the people and explain what kind of new and different Europe we want.
This is an area, ladies and gentlemen, in which the G20 has taken strong decisions - as it has on other matters - and the decisions in this case have involved the introduction of supervision and rules of governance.
He has drafted a sound report in close cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs.
I particularly welcome the section which recognises that the CFP has been an unmitigated disaster and that the EU must learn from its failures in delivering an integrated maritime policy.
Even though I agree with Ms Jäätteenmäki that, unfortunately, we have not seen a lot of progress.
(BG) My congratulations to Edit Bauer on the excellent work she has done on the recommendations on equal payment between men and women.
It is time to congratulate the Commission and its President, who has always been very concerned about tackling the crisis, and to highlight that Parliament itself has shown great readiness to discuss this issue by setting up a special committee.
The objectives of this report are as follows: greater transparency, and at the same time clearer data protection requirements.
Is it not hypocrisy to expect capital punishment to be abolished today in Iraq or Afghanistan while doing nothing to restore security and justice in these countries?
Although significant progress has been made during the last 10 years in terms of developing EU-Latin American bilateral relations, further steps still need to be taken.
To translate this new framework into action, a major task for the Commission will be to help establish the European External Action Service - all this for 2009, if all the timetables, as we hope, are respected.
One is the Council of Europe and, secondly, we now have a human rights agency, which has just been established in Vienna, to monitor the situation in the Member States and which will prepare yearly reports.
I would like to know how this rest station project is progressing.
Let us not allow yet another nation to disappear from the map of Europe.
(ES) I am delighted to be in this very special forum with the President of the Spanish Government, someone whom I have valued very highly since the time when he was a strong law student.
Consequently, our analysis of the facts is completely different from the analysis made by the rapporteur, who believes that the governments are responsible for the financial derailments.
in writing. - (SV) The Swedish Green Party supports and wants a liberal immigration policy.
Switzerland is now joining, and even before joining, it has reported significant successes due to access to the SIS.
Pharmaceutical companies operating at a supra-national level will be better able to cooperate and the result will be faster access to the latest drugs for everyone, especially those most in need.
It is time for us to listen to the voices that count.
President-in-Office of the Council. - First of all, I would like extend my heartfelt thanks to Parliament and the Members who supported the Council's position.
Plans for the future of the CAP have to work at a practical level and it must be affordable.
My group, the ALDE Group - the European Liberals - is the champion of a Europe that is for all citizens.
The EU supports a range of different mobility programmes.
The people of Chechnya will continue to be exterminated, the press will continue to be silenced, and the Kremlin's abundant reserves of natural resources will allow it to continue implementing a brutal foreign policy.
At the same time, we want Europe to be a leader in developing those technologies, and we can achieve both with the foundation of this proposal.
Salmonella and Campylobacter, two of the most toxic bacteria, are present in the carcasses of three quarters of chickens reared on European farms.
If Mr Gollnisch had wished to present his case, he could have attended our committee meeting, but he did not.
Luckily, the rapporteur for the Committee on Industry has solutions to offer, including the employment of a psychologist and a chaplain for every 500 employees.
What does the Interagency Committee on Radioprotection, which brings together the European Commission, the IAEA - the International Atomic Energy Agency - and the Nuclear Energy Agency say?
Was it not a feisty Slovene who, raising his fist against a mighty empire, first declared: 'All roads do not lead to Rome!'?
I hope that the French Presidency will never accept such mockery of the Kyoto Protocol and negative discrimination against the new Member States, including my homeland.
I do hope that people will listen to the Committee Chairman's guidelines on this, because he has the right idea about how this process should be gone about in the proper way, in order to achieve concrete and fitting results.
Low-cost companies provide 427,000 jobs directly or indirectly.
It is a dangerous situation, partly from the perspective of the states that border Russia and partly because Putin and his men have created a dangerous precedent for themselves.
The European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) has been given the task of defining binding standards for engine ash tolerance levels.
If it does, we could save much more than the EUR 400 that someone complained about when it comes to bringing transparency to voting.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by thanking my colleague from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, Mr Klinz, for his excellent work.
We want the Commission to present a legislative proposal without delay, and we are really pushing for this.
I agree with that, but on that point in particular I see little cause for optimism.
It should be stressed that this phenomenon has a much broader scope and far more serious consequences than we imagine.
These principles are shared by all Member States.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, the first thing I want to make clear here tonight is that this is not about third-country imports.
The countries of the Lower Danube have the lowest economic status.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, I admit that that is undoubtedly the new European policy.
What has been the outcome of the initial agreements on readmission that the EU has negotiated in this area?
We must protect the interests of the most vulnerable and promote our own social model.
Sensitive infrastructures like the European hub in Frankfurt am Main and elsewhere are completely unsuitable as a playground for those individuals who compulsively champion the cause of harmonisation in Europe.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, Russia is Europe's largest and closest neighbour and, because of our trade relations, also one of the most important.
After a previous tragedy in Belgium in 2001, comprehensive safety measures were promised but have not been implemented.
I also have been making efforts for well over a year to try and get some semblance of order into the idea of colleges of supervisors or a better regulatory system for cross-border financial institutions.
In any case, it is very clear that we want to see separate legislation on this and that it should not be dealt with as part of the novel foods regulation.
This is despite the fact that the only piece of information that we have, namely the report by the internal auditor, says that there is a B account, an off-budget account at the Council.
Today, it is the Union for the Mediterranean that is stagnating, and the political disputes that have gone unmentioned have come back to haunt it.
Just as serious, ladies and gentlemen, is the proposal regarding refugee funds: while we are investing more in Frontex, these funds are being cut back.
Changing demographic trends, for example, provide sufficient evidence of this requirement.
His interventions always reassure me that we are indeed on the right track.
I refer in particular to the problems met when starting a business.
I agree with the rapporteur's proposal to introduce the principle of 'one person - one passport', so that every person has a passport with his or her biometrical data.
These are symptomatic of a pressing and alarming situation and of widespread concern for the future of the sector as a whole.
But they were, of course, obliged to work within the limits imposed on them and I would point out that these limits are unreasonable.
Inevitably, there are a small number of technical adjustments that I hereby request to be put to the vote in plenary.
People will accept financial charges, taxes and other environmental levies, but only when they believe they are sensible and can see a positive outcome.
Also, the recasting procedure limits Parliament's role.
Obviously because these are the largest creators of jobs, and at the moment, our greatest problems here in Europe are represented by employment issues.
We need to help that country to remain what it has always been: one of the oldest democracies in the world.
Public opinion in Romania was recently drawn by the case of three women belonging to the same family, daughter, mother, grandmother, who were imprisoned simultaneously to serve a sentence for a minor offence.
According to the UN, since the start of the conflict 800 000 people have fled their homes.
This is connected with freedom of expression, which is a core European value.
We believe that the annual reports from the Directorates-General do not cover in sufficient detail or fail to consider altogether the hit rate from the budget.
It is important for us to discuss people and positions.
That Council will discuss the Commission's proposals in relation to the objectives.
Secondly, I think that it is essential that passengers be informed of changes to travel schedules, delays and their rights.
If I may quote the Commissioner on some of the things that he said, I should like to start with his statement that, in times of crisis, politicians should do something.
In summary, the document fills many roles and all of them important.
The problem of unequal remuneration is therefore an element of discrimination against the weak.
The strategies for lifelong learning and mobility are vital to increasing the chances of finding employment on the labour market.
Citizens can see the results of growth without any social face which, instead of creating permanent jobs, aims to further concentrate wealth and power into the hands of a few.
Madam President, may I start by thanking the Presidency-in-Office for their opening comments - comments that were far-sighted, balanced and sensible, adjectives that we have come increasingly to associate with the Czech Presidency.
All the issues that are still relevant have already been regulated in the European context, or else no regulation is necessary or the issue concerned would have been better resolved on the basis of subsidiarity.
One of the rights that it guarantees is the right to privacy and data protection.
This aspect must be taken into account when improving access to the European market for third country goods, otherwise many European manufacturing sectors will simply cease to exist.
The right to health should form the legal basis.
I think the Commission should consider this very seriously.
Do you think that the actions you have outlined are enough to restore that confidence?
In accordance with the above directives, in 2007, the Commission presented a report on the impact of the current summer time regime.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I hope that if Parliament adopts the electricity report tomorrow, it will be an indication to energy companies all over Europe that we want the consumer back in the driving seat.
However, before making any proposal, the Commission will consider the question carefully in the light of the position expressed by Parliament.
We want Parliament and the Council to be on an equal footing and in balance with each other.
The budgetary stimulus given to the European economy, if we include the automatic stabilisers in this, is now approaching 4% of European GDP.
We are all against smoking, but we must not confuse two things: for as long as people in Europe smoke cigarettes and the European industry needs tobacco, it makes more sense for us to produce it than to import it.
But, of course, we have heard from many colleagues today that there is considerable disappointment in this Parliament.
Madam President, the turbulent financial events of the last few days have changed the world.
The Americans file over a third more patent applications with the European Patent Office than the Europeans themselves.
It has caused job losses and resulted in financial austerity policies.
That goes without saying, like kicking down an open door.
The proposed changes do nothing to counter the problems, let alone resolve them; they are making the situation worse.
In this regard, I would urge colleagues to support the plenary amendments tabled by my own group and other groups, which are very clear and simple, and to delete these elements.
To give you an example which received fairly wide media coverage: in August this year the European Union issued a declaration on the 400th execution in Texas.
If we achieve the targeted full harmonisation through the Green Paper, this promises that we can work on a good common contractual base for the future.
They say there is democracy in Europe.
Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 2020 strategy does not make it very clear what the relationship will be between the Cohesion Policy and this strategy.
During the signing a number of members interrupted the proceedings with loud heckling and attempted to prevent the speakers from being heard.
In Sweden, we measure the Swedish people's trust in various institutions each year.
But, to give you an example, I could mention the research infrastructures of pan-European interest, for which the final budget in Framework Programme 7 is much less than the Commission had originally proposed.
Under this medieval institutional framework, repressive mechanisms are allowed to prohibit and punish the circulation of ideas on the pretext that they foster or incite terrorist acts.
This was a mistake that must and will be corrected in the next EU strategy which must reinforce the role of the African Union and be based on concepts of partnership and equality.
In addition, given the economic situation in Europe, we must support a mandate for a socially balanced EU budget which also takes competitiveness into account.
It can therefore be said that, when the Republic of Latvia regained its independence in 1991, the Soviet-era newcomers were in Latvia illegally.
It is with regret that colleagues on the right differed.
A typical example is the proposal we are considering today, to combat terrorism on the Internet.
As our colleague, Mr Sánchez Presedo, points out, that is possibly 5% of tax.
Moreover, we should not forget that no such animal welfare guarantees have ever been made for the commercial seal hunts elsewhere in the world, such as Russia and Namibia.
(DA) Madam President, early tomorrow morning I am going to the grocer's to buy bottled drinking water.
But the loss of biodiversity is a global threat that needs to be faced with the same urgency, and they are linked.
If the economy has improved - as we all hope it will - or if the money is not being used for the purpose for which it was authorised, we shall also act accordingly and adopt the necessary decisions.
Consequently, vessels fishing under all kinds of agreements should be included.
It is even more important, however, for Europe to at last begin to speak with one voice on external energy policy.
As they continue their respective deployment, I am proud that Irish troops are forming part of this mission.
I believe we should think of the tensions of the socialist era as an intermission that should be remembered, but they do not constitute a constant factor.
Now we need to devote the autumn to discussing continued measures to take us through the crisis.
Many Iranians have fled the regime of terror in their country and many of them would no longer be alive if they had not done so.
The Eurobarometer study from last October documented serious public concerns with regard to hypothetical future use of food products from clones.
I believe that this version of the report is also balanced geographically, recognising the importance of enhancing our energy relations not only with our eastern neighbours but also with our Mediterranean, Middle East, Asian and other partners.
The Member in question was Othmar Karas, Vice-President of the EPP Group.
With those comments, I can agree with the proposed strategy and I thank the rapporteur sincerely for his report.
The annual budget procedure is being changed, and last year we tried out the new requirements made of work in Parliament's Committee on Budgets.
Many thanks to the Commission too in this respect.
I myself am very interested in this matter and am always willing to discuss it with you.
There will be very little tax to cooperate over.
If you concentrate on the Western Balkans, you'll be doing Europe a great deal of good and you will potentially have a lot more success in this than in trying to resolve Turkey's problems!
Until now, the members of the Committee on Petitions at times had to battle quite hard to find out whether a certain document really was a matter of European law or not.
This was a major issue of sensitivity during the Irish referendum campaign on the Lisbon Treaty.
In summary, I would like to thank everyone most sincerely for the stimulating debate.
Action to promote a healthy lifestyle must be taken.
An alternative rail offer for flights of less than 90 minutes gives the customer another option and enables him or her to make an informed choice.
To my mind, the revision of this directive was only really necessary to deal with the SIMAP and Jaeger judgments by the European courts, and that is all that we should have looked at.
Even if the subprime crisis started in the USA, bankers, insurers and fund managers in Europe have been just as greedy, this being the main driving force in the financial world.
In many countries, in many research centres and in many universities, the intellectual resources are ready, the capabilities are there and the will is there: it is now time to set things in motion.
Russia is thus making it very clear just how little it values human rights.
Disputes between Russia, Norway, the US and Canada obviously have a geopolitical significance as well.
My question concerns the poverty of the European citizens who are in some areas of Spain.
Secondly, you say - and you are right - that public finances need to be controlled better, that a return to more stable debt levels is necessary.
These 10 countries include only one European country - Germany.
Is EU legislation always the way forward?
In particular, in the light of food shortages, we must emphasise the importance of a strong CAP which will take on a key role in future in overcoming global challenges.
It should be clear that neither the European Commission nor the European Parliament have magic wands at their disposal when it comes to decisiveness or enforcement.
Why was there no press release today from a Kyprianou source?
That is especially true for south-eastern Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, you want to prove to the voters that you manage their funds responsibly.
An important element of the Directive is the guarantee that the postal services will be universal even after this market has been opened up.
If, however, there is a grain of truth in the allegations, then the facts are serious enough to warrant an enquiry.
A rational European immigration policy would involve some common framework of criteria for economic migration within which Member States accepting such migrants can operate under their own decisions on the numbers they take.
Mr President, I support Mr Winkler's position and I voted in favour of reviewing Community innovation policy.
In Romania, more than 6 000 redundancies will be made in the rail transport sector during this period.
(SL) Thank you for your answer, Commissioner.
The report was prepared by Mr Busuttil, and I should like to congratulate him on this success.
All that in the media has led to consumers being undermined and everyone agreeing again that 'Europe is doing everything wrong' and 'Europe is against rather than for the citizens'.
We have the treaty provisions in place which allow us to act.
People in long-term possession of large funds to put on deposit can do this and make the deposit safe by splitting it between institutions, but it is unrealistic to ask that lump-sum payments be channelled that way.
Otherwise, to quote Mr Barroso, the Union will miss its 'moment of truth'.
It is an important principle that must become even clearer after the judgments that have been given.
I personally believe that if we guarantee temporary agency workers the same conditions enjoyed by workers from user companies, we are not only protecting temporary agency workers but, above all, local permanent staff.
(PL) Mr President, we are currently facing rapid increases in the price of energy.
Environmental quality must also be restored effectively, so let us keep a close eye on that.
With regard to the opportunities presented by sustainable industrial policies, the EU has to take into account the potential presented by the industries of the new Member States.
If the State of Israel cannot entertain a territorial division, I find it difficult to foresee peace in this area, I am afraid.
It is therefore an issue that should be discussed with the Euromed countries.
Mr President, the EU is proud of its commitment to the IPCC's recommendations on how to combat global warming by persuading its Member States to inject massive funding into carbon-emission control projects.
That was the agenda of the G20 in Pittsburgh.
To my sorrow and shame, however, the Socialist Party, my party, the party in government, voted against the formation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on 10 January 2007.
Mr Lieberman, I will also say that you are not welcome, not because you represent Israel, but because your racist and xenophobic positions are incompatible with European values.
The Arctic region, however, needs a comprehensive approach, as the High Representative said here.
Faced with the worsening disruption of the last few days, the regulatory authorities in the majority of Member States have decided, like the US authorities, to issue a temporary ban on short sales.
(NL) Mr President, resolution or no resolution, I believe that the Council heard us loud and clear last time and knows full well what it has to do.
During the work on the Stockholm Programme, it emerged that there is agreement on the need for the Member States to prevent illegal immigration into the EU in a joint and coordinated way.
As an MEP from a country in immediate proximity to the Western Balkans, I welcome the progress that has been made by the candidate or potential candidate countries mentioned in the report.
For this, an additional EUR nine million has been added to the reserve, to be spent on the new Web TV when the prototype has been approved.
This is, in my view, misleading and confusing to the patient and to the doctor, and increases the risk of overdosing and of causing dangerous side effects.
We cannot emphasise this enough, for Mugabe's current position is quite simply criminal.
It was said many times that we, meaning the European Union, must pursue a single and common approach when dealing with the United States.
Human trafficking is not just something that takes place with citizens of countries outside the Union, but also with those of countries within it.
We will also have to urgently take up the crucial issue of internet copyright.
There is an ecological disaster under way, threatening the coastlines of the region, as the Beit Lahia plant sewage plant is not operating properly and repairs cannot be carried out, as supplies are blocked.
In that event, we would literally have allowed hundreds of millions to run into the sand.
And what better opportunity to act and to speed things up than the climate-change conference to be held in December in Copenhagen, in other words, on our own territory!
Apart from any environmental romanticism, we must not forget European industry.
Lastly, the proposed repair clause is derived from and is in full accord with the principles of intellectual property protection.
Is there a new proposal of the European Council for Copenhagen with a 30% target - a greater offsetting than the 20% target - for 2025?
One such measure is the Commission's draft regulation, being debated in Parliament, which stipulates that Member States may finance, from structural and cohesion funds, large-scale public work programmes for residential renovation.
Apart from the political will not being there, the police will is not there either.
For these people equal rights and democracy are only possible if their secession ceases to be a matter of debate and they have a guarantee that they will not be subject to military attack from outside.
Madam President, it may not be obvious why, as a representative of London, I am giving an explanation of vote on a matter concerning farming and the common agricultural policy.
Mr Barroso is unable to attend, today, for important family reasons.
This resolution did not achieve that. I therefore abstained.
The Internal Market Scoreboard and the Consumer Panel have a crucial role in improving the functioning of the internal market.
As a result of this situation, consumer vulnerability as regards financial matters is on the increase.
Therefore, I believe it is important to ask about working conditions and any changes in those conditions.
I think this is the first time the Israelis have accepted Europe as a major partner and the Czech Presidency as an important representative.
They are condemned by everyone, they do not speak for Greek workers and they do not express everyone's conviction that, if we unite as a nation, we shall get the country out of the crisis.
In October 2008, the government of the Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia filed an application for Community financing for Corridor 10, which crosses its territory.
When we look at the coming year, at the financial crisis, there is much that we must now get on with, and education and training really play a key role.
Otherwise, if the situation persists after 2013, it will constitute de facto tolerance of two common agricultural policies on the territory of the EU.
With regard to the new Commission, this case is essentially under the remit of Mrs Malmström, who knows the Stockholm Programme very well because she was involved in making it a reality and putting it together.
The first is the European Police College, CEPOL, which has again this year received remarks for its public procurement, and this is a recurring problem that has not been addressed.
We also have to ensure appropriate maritime principles, reduce the impact of agriculture on the Baltic Sea, and I agree entirely with the European Parliament's opinion that at the heart of the strategy, we must strengthen cooperation with third countries.
I am pleased that the Ukrainian elections last Sunday passed off well.
I accept your Amendments 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 13, 14 and 16.
Alas, this debate has driven the online gamblers and the sporting governing bodies further apart than they have ever been before, rather than drawing them together to try and work out a common solution.
The quotas are the legacy of bygone era when Europe's dairies produced infamous lakes of milk and the EU had to help to keep prices from collapsing.
Personally, I also believe that it is quite important for us to take a closer look at clothes sizes.
- (SK) At the time when Slovakia submitted its application to the European Union it was already a member of the Council of Europe and had therefore already signed and ratified the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms.
Up to now, without hypocrisy, it is a state closed to monitoring by international organisations, which have not been able to enter the country for 10 years.
As for financing climate measures in the developing countries, I regret that in its new communication the Commission still made very general observations and did not propose sufficiently concrete models.
The reality which we have all realised is that the 2020 strategy does not even have enough green or social policies.
Let me just say that the negotiations on a Free Trade Agreement between the EU and Colombia and Peru were indeed finalised recently, but the agreement has not yet been formally initialled.
I would like to take this opportunity at the end of nearly a year's work to add my thanks to all participants.
There was also a debate in relation to ILO conventions.
This year, for the first time, it will be commemorated as World Malaria Day.
However, we must also look at the economy of the future.
in writing. - This report seeks to go beyond the competence given to the EU by the Member States in the area of anti-discrimination.
Importantly, support for people themselves also forms part of the cohesion policy and this is why I regret the fact that the Commissioner's response was slightly evasive.
(The sitting was suspended at 12.35 a.m. and resumed at 3.00 p.m.)
In this way the data provided by individual Member States will be comparable at both European and regional level, as is often necessary.
- (PL) Along with the rest of higher education I warmly welcomed the second stage of the Erasmus Mundus programme.
I opposed the report even though it makes some good points, such as the fact that water must be for all or that we must share resources and that there must be solidarity among regions.
Mr Schulz has not spoken as if he were suited to more than simply being the leader of his party, but he is right on one point and I would like to tell him so.
The next item is the Commission statement on the mass atrocities in Jos (Nigeria) in January and March.
There is also more choice than there was 10 years ago, with more brands available for each type of car.
The human rights dialogue was stopped - it was not stopped by us but by Iran.
We have had very good experience of this dialogue and we think that it works well.
I think there has been something of a misunderstanding here between the groups and I wanted to try and clear that up.
We have now had many meetings with the Commission to get reassurance on this.
In any case, I have been to these countries and I have been shocked by the fact that these people feel abandoned by the European Union in their daily struggle.
I would like to conclude with some remarks on what we consider to be the key elements of the strengthened ENP.
Such practices must not be allowed to pass without a strong reaction from European institutions.
I wish to remove the word 'fragmentation' in the first sentence, and then in the second sentence replace the word 'assurer' (ensure) with 'renforcer' (reinforce).
The European Commission has developed and implemented a series of measures specifically designed to help such enterprises.
A significant element in negotiations on the 2008 budget was the need to make a decision on two innovative trans-European projects - the GALILEO project and the development of the European Institute of Technology.
Under Article 36 of our Accession Treaty we have the right to start reactivating this nuclear power station.
(DE) Mr President, first of all, as regards Mrs Kallenbach's report and the Leipzig Charter, yes, we must consider spatial planning in a European context to a greater extent.
He has worked hard in this area and raised some fundamental issues on the EU and Central Asia strategy.
We follow developments there attentively through the intermediaries of our delegation in Yerevan, with the Member States, and in close cooperation with the European Union Special Representative, Peter Semneby.
The new regulation is not merely the result of successful negotiation.
Madam President, as reality shows and Eurostat itself confirms, the economic and social crisis is having a serious effect on women.
When the crisis in Georgia arose in August, on 8 August, we had just one focus: stopping the war and not allowing it to turn into another Bosnia.
Why do you remain silent on this subject?
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SV) Madam President, there is no doubt that visa liberalisation is incredibly important for the people of the Balkans.
Nowadays, universities must engage in closer cooperation with the business world in order to provide a suitable response to the requirements of the labour market, especially in a globalised economy.
For this reason, I believe the Neighbourhood Policy should become proactive, namely we should not only monitor the development of the situation, but also support the given countries in their efforts to meet the required standards.
Madam President, I do not believe that it is necessary on such a day to underline once more how important fundamental rights are for Europe and how important they are for all the acts we are proposing.
We have the best carrier rocket systems in the world.
Respect for secularity, for women's rights and for the rights of the Kurdish people, as well as acknowledgement of the Armenian genocide, must remain the criteria by which Turkey's potential accession is decided.
Moreover, it should be clear that, once this directive has been adopted, it is up to the Member States to galvanise themselves into action.
At the same time, precisely because meeting the conditions requires a major effort, acceding states must also be encouraged to make the effort involved and not only that.
To that end the proposal for a report specifically tries to support the Commission in identifying bottlenecks and trying to draw up new proposals.
At present this is the only recognised source of clean energy producible on a large-scale but it has its ideological opponents even in the EP.
We will continue to promote the technical harmonisation of rail in conjunction with the European Railway Agency.
We still believe, however, that the Common Foreign and Security Policy will continue for the foreseeable future to stand or fall by the political will of the Member States, and that is regrettable.
I would stress that the transitional measures must not stray from the general principles laid down in the new treaty, nor must they jeopardise any future legislative procedures.
I think that would be the wrong way to go.
Jerusalem is one of the most beautiful cities in the world - it is really an extraordinary place - and so it is terribly tragic that the peoples living there side by side cannot manage to do so peacefully.
The European Commission's 2003 FLEGT Action Plan, specifically intended to prevent trading in illegally harvested timber in Europe, has had only a very limited effect.
Different labour markets should operate side by side.
At the same time, it is important to be able to turn the viewpoint around.
For decades, we have informed consumers of the content of foods and medicines, but not of what is contained in the clothes that they wear.
We are holding European taxpayers to ransom, and those taxpayers are becoming more uneasy with each passing day; this should not be forgotten.
I do not think we should speak in such a way.
I think it is important to discuss that at the European Council at the end of this week.
Once they have concluded the credit contract, consumers will be able to withdraw from the credit without having to give any reason and without any charge.
Not to mention the new settlements that will turn Palestine into another Bantustan.
How do you think the wishes of the majority of the population in the EU can be upheld on that issue?
(GA) Madam President, I am very grateful to the Commission for its support, and for the progress the Commission has made, in relation to the Irish language.
Inclusion of the bluefin tuna in Appendix I to the CITES convention would appear to be fully justified and the only way to prevent its becoming extinct.
The private debt crisis should not simply be traded for public debt.
Seventeen years of statelessness have seen loss of civilian life, mass displacements and destruction of physical infrastructures.
Approval of Minutes of previous sitting: see Minutes
This has been a broad and consensual task, not a confrontational and one-sided one.
I have noted that the European Union has communicated with Russia officially on the subject.
Realise this and, I urge you to be prepared for it.
There are 23 million false self-employed.
(PT) We are attending yet another rehearsal of the basic tenets of the neo-liberal policy which has been pursued during the Portuguese Presidency.
We have faith in you, but have no doubt that we will also fulfil our duty as legislator under the partnership that you will propose.
By laying down common definitions and indicators, the proposed regulation ensures the comparability of data and, as a result, promotes better practice in the Member States.
On the High Representative, you will have much more transparency, much more discussion, because that will be part of the Commission, part of a decision taken after hearings inside Parliament.
It represents a particularly dramatic development of a global phenomenon concerning the way in which women are treated, which must be quickly brought to an end in the 21st century.
I think that everything is known about desertification, but very little action is being taken.
The measures are instead aimed solely at rescuing those responsible for the financial bubble: EUR 23 trillion have already been spent, EUR 5 trillion of which were spent by the European Central Bank.
It is only right, therefore, that the EU should establish a microfinance facility in response to this employment crisis and, in that way, also lend support to those programmes in the individual Member States which pursue the same objective.
I believe this can be explained to people, that it is not so difficult, but that we need a certain time for this, along with the right approach.
Climate change is accelerating the processes of soil deterioration and desertification, especially in the Member States in south-east Europe, including Romania.
Three of the reasons for the spread of piracy internationally are the technological facilities for low-cost illegal copying, unfavourable economic conditions and the expansion of the Internet.
That is why it is so important to maintain continuity in the Community programme of food distribution to the most deprived persons.
(PT) My response to the issue of fighting organised crime and the Council's assessment and response are contained in my initial speech.
It is our opinion, in line with the assessment of many human rights organisations, that the terms and conditions of Mr Shalit's detention are contrary to international humanitarian law.
It is the Reform Treaty's great merit - I, too, therefore clearly support the work of the rapporteurs - to ensure that the European Union becomes more capable of action and more democratic at the same time.
Violence against women is a violation of human rights that prevents women from exercising their fundamental rights.
Thank you very much and my best wishes for an expansion not only of memory but also of responsibility.
I cannot see him stopping the traffic in Beijing or Washington; I doubt anybody in Brussels would even recognise who he is.
(HU) Thank you for the opportunity to speak, Mr President.
However, in order that members of the public should feel interested in, and affected by, European issues and should turn out en masse to vote, communication emanating from the different institutions will have to be consistent and clear.
The success of these would bring the country much closer to our European standards in areas of fundamental importance.
It is not acceptable that China's currency-dumping is risking the economic recovery in Europe.
We do not have the figures at our disposal but, as I have already said, de-institutionalisation is the principle we follow and we will continue to follow that path.
Turkish accession will be a disaster for the Turks and a disaster for Britain.
We need to forget this idea of a new tax.
Various information systems have been set up to reinforce security, but the framework decision on the protection of personal data in the third pillar has still not been adopted, as Mrs Roure knows very well.
His report sets out to improve a Commission strategy that is already based on the principles of protecting and empowering consumers.
Before I make my brief points, I would echo Mr Guerreiro's points about support for the fisheries sector within cohesion policy.
Such a policy, ladies and gentlemen, is doomed to failure, I can assure you.
It seems to me that European supervision in this area is insufficient, and that here we must also influence, as a democratically elected institution, the ethical standards followed by those who supervise banks and financial institutions.
Hence, the thing we are talking about today - these bungs to selected favoured companies.
The Commission's Extended Impact Assessment analysing the options to solve the problem demonstrates this.
In this respect, I congratulate Mr Ortuondo once again on his dedication and his almost punctilious tenacity in developing such a good legislative text.
in writing. - We are in agreement with the main thrust of the compromise report and are therefore voting for it.
There are still, however, many loopholes, and Parliament has to ensure that these loopholes are closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debate.
Therefore, we propose to define indicators and a scoreboard, agree alert thresholds and give recommendations and early warnings if necessary.
I want to thank the French Presidency and Commissioner Barrot for the enormous commitment they have made in this case with a view to reaching agreement at first reading.
It is unacceptable for some Member States to live beyond their means at the cost of the other Member States.
We in the Commission believe that there should be respect for the treaties in force.
The requests will be as narrowly tailored as possible: there are several review and scrutiny mechanisms, and the idea of an EU TFTP mechanism has also been mooted.
Their segregation from these services results in the life expectancy of Roma being estimated at 10 years less than the national average.
We know that modernisation would not be possible without abundant reserves of cheap oil, coal and gas.
I am still hopeful that in the Council, the usual suspects who like to refund surpluses to the national ministries will make one more effort, so that next year at least, we have a more ambitious approach.
We all agree that the labelling of textile products is a topic that is high on consumers' agendas and that we need to find a solution urgently.
Today we are debating two reports: Mr Marty's report and Mr Fava's report.
The Council has not yet received any notification in this regard.
However, it is also worth emphasising that, on the question of mobility, the policy of investment in the Trans-European Transport Network, and so questions of transport, will arise.
So we need a clear and forceful stand on human rights and also to have the human rights situation in Iran as a priority in dealing with Tehran.
Again, in my Group we are very happy that they are also included, but how do you want to link this to the other members, e.g. in Latin America, with whom we have free trade agreements?
In formulating a common set of European guidelines that allow for Europe-wide comparison of statistics, we will improve the EU's ability to formulate legislation that is consistent with the changing needs of people around Europe.
The ERDF Operational Programme 'Environment' co-finances nine waste water projects.
Let us remember how the European Union tried to boycott Austria when Jörg Haider came into power.
Consequently, I now put to the vote the proposal that I presented to you, that is, to move the vote on the motions for resolutions on the EU-Russia Summit to the next part-session in Brussels.
The examination of consumer protection issues is therefore extremely important, particularly when consumers sign digital content supply contracts.
Now, with a more complex Union, with 27 Member States, no one is questioning whether this should happen.
The Albertini report also stresses the need to establish a real Single European Sky.
While we are engaged in this ideological dance, we should remember that Marx said that, when economic structures change, the political superstructures must also change.
For all the above reasons, which are clearly explained in the report, I voted in favour.
Without an appropriate amount of good-quality soil, European agriculture too will be jeopardised.
In voting on this report, I am happy to declare that I have an interest, as Parliament's rules demand.
That is the only way both parents will have an equal say when they decide who takes parental leave after the birth of a child.
That is why we support some proposed derogations for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, which should not be subject to the same obligations as large industrial units.
We should be there to help farmers and to offer advice on how they can do things better.
(CS) Madam President, in the context of this report, I would like to draw your attention to an urgent problem that has emerged as regards the present crisis.
Furthermore, the savings made will also compensate for investment in innovative technologies.
Of course, it goes without saying that this form of tax evasion seriously damages growth and leads to flows of funds not on the basis of the criterion of return, but on how best to evade taxes.
So far, so bad, but then you proposed that, instead of perhaps setting a new deadline, we should leave it to the comitology procedure to set the date.
The early elections held in July 2009 and the victory of the Alliance for European Integration mark an important step towards fulfilling the European aspirations of Moldova's citizens.
However, it is difficult not to be disappointed with some of the proposed amendments to the First Company Law Directive.
This could not be done under the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Finally, the EU must remain strong and consistent in order to promote its vision of how the partnership with Russia should evolve.
Quite the contrary - we want to show them clearly.
Ladies and gentlemen, if the EU Member States can bring their experience to resolving problems, we should not withhold our expertise.
But within that we can certainly do a lot.
We will give our firm backing to all who want a peaceful solution to the many challenges across the Middle East region.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I am one of those curious constitutional animals who think that the Rules of Procedure mirror our own work here in our own Parliament.
Unfortunately, the Commission has not yet prepared a concrete strategy relating to animal welfare standards and has limited itself to the report presented in October 2009.
author. - (LT) As the time approaches when it will chair the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, sadly Kazakhstan is distancing itself from commitments on alignment with European standards.
Fellow Members, the round of consultations of the Hague Conference, which began seven years ago, is drawing to a close.
Otherwise, we believe that this report is an excellent exposition.
It has been necessary to draw up an unambiguous definition of maintenance obligations and to include in the scope of the regulation all orders relating to the payment of lump sums.
This is of such enormous importance to us because the ports are important intersections in the transport chains and they can only perform their role effectively if intermodality is facilitated and reinforced.
I do think, however, that these actions should be implemented by each Member State, in the first instance.
It is important for the coal industry to provide work safety and health conditions.
At least in the CMEA similar attempts were hidden behind the party politburos; but that is a thing of the past.
We believe that the protection of national borders for us remains a key element of public policy at national level.
First of all, better regulation is not the same as deregulation.
I wish to emphasise this particularly because amendments have been tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for a split vote on certain paragraphs.
As regards the deadline, we are giving off the wrong signals if the new migration instruments do not have a deadline.
The president of the German association of paediatricians once said that smoking in the presence of children constitutes intentional bodily harm.
In other words, investments made by Member States in this area are not to be subject to discussion even if they are contrary to European guidelines.
I would really like to thank you, Commissioner, and also the Council, for this new beginning, that was started primarily by you and Commissioner Reding.
In my view, therefore, anything connected with data collection and statistics is especially important.
Improved registers, greater user-friendliness and accessibility, active dissemination, and quicker publishing of documents are some examples of what I want to address in this action plan and, of course, continue to discuss with the other EU institutions.
For example, in my islands alone, the Canaries, three children have disappeared in recent years without a trace, meaning that they have not even appeared in paedophile networks.
(FR) Mr President, climate change has already caused 300 000 deaths, and inaction, for us, is a crime against humanity.
Creating a single currency was not an easy process and there were great speculative attacks on very important European currencies.
(DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations have reopened with the Mercosur countries, and, if I interpret today's criticisms correctly, the main issue is that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was not informed.
I did not refer to this so as not to exhaust all subjects, but I fully agree with the application of the rules on new financial supervision and regulation.
Two-way action integration measures must be included to strengthen both acceptance by host societies and the readiness of male and female immigrants to integrate.
We should reflect seriously on the fact that nothing that has been done cannot be undone, that everything is somewhere remembered - even if only in the form of flying light - and that nothing is therefore forgiven forever.
This involves the creation of a climate fund, financed by the revenue from the emission trading scheme and/or equivalent private funds in Member States, in order to provide the investments and solidarity required for financing a future climate policy.
Mr Papastamkos, I agree with you on the legal and regulatory burdens.
It is inconceivable that a 45-year-old woman should die on her way home from work and a doctor a few days away from retirement should be killed during an attempted burglary at his home in Milan.
Let us not forget that before we construct new rules we need to stick to the most fundamental rules, but let me also point to some other things.
If I hear substantial criticism a moment ago from my fellow Member from the United Kingdom, and in fact, that country has introduced the package, one might wonder if use of the package is, in fact, completely appropriate.
The responsibilities of the French Presidency will surely increase given that the European context is disrupted and the global markets in raw material foodstuffs and fuels are shooting up.
ERDF, ESF, Cohesion Fund (revenue-generating projects) (
On the basis of this response, we will try mutually to draft an action plan proposal and then hopefully get this action plan agreed and implemented.
The first is that you might still use your rock solid competence in the field of competition to ascertain whether the massive State aid promised by some Member States is really compatible with the European rules.
In Europe, one in three people will develop cancer during their lifetime.
It is an important Green Paper and it should start a major discussion within this Parliament and beyond.
This is one of those areas where the EU should also encourage the new President of the United States to adopt a new line.
It is necessary, however, because some countries are fighting a hard, long-fought battle against uncontrollable animal diseases.
Such an attitude is needed if the European project is to move forward.
It is also crucial for external relations and development.
(The Minutes of the previous sitting were approved.)
Europe is in its most precarious economic situation since the end of the Second World War.
There are still cases of haphazard data transfer, and there is still the retention of data for five years.
The defensive measures entail the use of all the mechanisms and instruments of commercial defence that are at our disposal.
(FR) Excuse me, Mr President, but I have something very important to say.
It has been proposed that one billion euros are to be spent to improve their situation over the period from 2008 to 2009, which is quite a notable sum in the European Union budget.
We must not make the euro weaker, if those countries which are affected feel that the euro protects rather than weakens them.
I am therefore somewhat concerned when I listen to some members of the Council of Ministers, who do not say much about new markets and free trade but rather criticise globalisation and talk of protecting European companies and European jobs.
Your decision to designate 2008 as the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue and develop various related initiatives is indeed timely and very important.
The European Parliament elections and the new appointment of the Commission, together with the anticipated entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, will make the practical work in connection with the 2009 budget quite difficult.
The reasons are not known, the consequences are criminal...
The question is whether the six-plus-five rule is feasible at European level.
Currency union cannot be separated - even according to the science of economics - from fiscal union, and the latter cannot exist without political union.
However, it is very easy to see that closing down Guantánamo is going to be a very complicated process, and that no one wants to help with this.
We must be seen to be busy.
The call for the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in the Middle East is obviously aimed at Israel.
The competitiveness of Europe and job security in Europe have to be weighed up against protecting the environment and the climate.
For this reason, Germany, for example, has undertaken to limit the amount of land sealed under concrete and asphalt each day to 30 hectares from 2020.
The latest Eurostat statistics show that, as of 2015, the number of deaths will exceed the number of births, thus leading to a decrease in the number of European citizens from 521 million in 2015 to 506 million in 2060.
We need Russia's help as part of the Quartet to work towards a peaceful resolution of the Middle East conflict with a new PM of Israel and US President in place.
in writing. - MEP Schwab has proposed a report which aims to increase car safety through the introduction of increased safety measures requirements for car manufacturers.
In my opinion, we must support the accession aspirations of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, because the country undoubtedly belongs to the European, Western cultural background and, in recent months and years, has made progress in numerous areas.
I could not support this regulation, purely because of the amendments.
I welcome the compromise package, but at the same time I would like to emphasise that the compromise is a rather fragile one.
Maybe we do not have this single telephone number, but if you make a comparison with the United States - in connection with climate protection, for example - who should we call?
The Commission will also continue, of course, to support the relevant research to fill the existing gaps in knowledge.
I therefore understand why numerous posters calling for a referendum were held aloft in the House today, as the Treaty of Lisbon itself, of course, gives us the option of offering the European people such a referendum.
We cannot expect a positive change in the environmental situation in the Baltic Sea by relying only on ad hoc projects.
If implemented as it stands, Europe 2020 will be another Lisbon Strategy - a failure.
This allowed the schedule to be met, but we will have the same problem when Parliament's opinion is sought on other aspects of the Schengen acquis.
Many farmers' livelihoods would then be in jeopardy.
I must state clearly at this point that vaccines are, of course, not freely available.
The point is not the way that things are going in Italy - the pressure on journalists, the self-censorship journalists are starting to apply in Italy.
Far more of a problem are multiple contracts and the definition of autonomous work.
The task is very important, and in order to successfully complete it, we need to implement a genuine strategy to ensure respect for fundamental rights within the European Union.
In this respect yes, Walter Hallstein was a great European!
Of the other priorities of this budget, I would pick out the areas of scientific research, innovation and the digital agenda.
He has recently said outright that he wants to make returns of 25%.
Those provisions are there, they bind us at the moment and there is no reason to have to suffer any intimidation from our American friends.
- (DE) Madam President, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, the 'peanuts' have meant that, in my small village of 450 inhabitants, it has been full steam ahead with work on bridging the broadband gap.
In 2005 our fellow Member Herbert Bösch highlighted in his excellent report the scale of the problems and the need to fight fraud and errors.
Therefore, VHI's initial exemption from the EU's rules for insurers is no longer applicable.
We are a significant step closer to mutual recognition of safety regulations for electric appliances, something we Europeans have been asking the Americans for for many years.
(The sitting was suspended at 14.10 and resumed at 15.00)
Are we not in danger of encouraging people to take on too much debt if we do not further strengthen the conditions for lenders to check consumers' creditworthiness?
I would also like to express my satisfaction, because with this agreement that we are achieving here today, in this debate, we are concluding a process.
Talks at the Council meeting led to an agreement to formulate strategies on the basis of the principles discussed by the finance ministers at their informal meeting in Gothenburg.
(FR) Madam President, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is trying desperately to contest the competence of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality on the question of equality between men and women in the workplace.
I congratulate Mrs Kaufmann on the way she has worked to find the consensus that was obviously needed on an issue such as this.
That is why it is so appropriate for the Sakharov Prize to be awarded 'For Freedom of Thought'.
Unemployment is here to stay for some time in most of our countries and that is a very, very serious situation.
For 60 years we in Europe did not try to solve their problem, nor did we have any reason to do so.
This will help reduce future distortions of competition and make it more difficult for those who might seek to abuse their market power.
Member of the Commission. - First of all, the reference to dengue fever is also important because the same insect could also transmit the dengue disease to fresh meat, so this is also a concern for us.
One of the prime objectives of the next European Council will be to ensure the success of the UN Conference on climate change, which will take place in Copenhagen in December.
I hope tomorrow, colleagues will support these and other amendments which are aimed at improving the guidelines.
The WTO has been criticised recently for its lack of transparency.
Ideology cannot decide what sort of footing Europe's energy supply will rest on in 10, 20 or 50 years' time; science must decide.
There is a lesson to be learned from the Greek crisis: we need to act instead of reacting.
We must always remember that when we talk about urban transport, so that we preserve and maintain that richness for the long term.
This very week, the Spanish Congress of Deputies will ratify the Treaty of Lisbon in a single reading.
Therefore, let me conclude by expressing my special thanks to the European Parliament for its support for the Commission's efforts towards better financial management of the European Union's budget.
It is important to remember that we are not only dealing with our current borrowing, but also with future challenges such as Europe's demographics, its ageing population and so on.
Our European Union projects have been blocked.
This will be less expensive and will give the European Union greater stability.
We can have a ban on dangerous substances and subsidise green technology.
President Barack Obama gave an extraordinary speech about Africa in Africa the other day.
I would like to invite the European Commission to analyse how adversely all these steps will affect the actions of the junta and how much they will affect the people.
Competition and the pursuit of profit must not be allowed to take priority over the safety of human lives.
I would like to see a greater degree of European coordination and action against the individual Member State operators where they are part of the problem.
Finally, I would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues here who have spoken, because we feel that there is a genuine basic unity in this Parliament.
Since the presentation of this report and the ratification of the Treaty are not far removed, many of the suggestions made in the report may become a reality.
Having secured the unanimous support of the Committee on Regional Development, this result was confirmed by today's vote, which maintains the tax reduction with effect from January 2009 until 2013.
But I do agree with the Commissioner - let us not make the situation more complicated.
The European Union has fifty million Europeans with various health problems who in everyday life come up against various difficulties.
Unfortunately, the report's general conclusion is unsatisfactory.
We should apply this pragmatic approach in the future, too, so that we can strike a sound and, even more so, responsible balance between safety and economics.
We think that the essential part of that strategy should be a so-called soft transition to the elimination of milk quotas, which would secure an unhindered transition to a more market-orientated dairy policy and predictability in this sector.
in writing. - (SV) The situation in the Gaza Strip is extremely serious, as the ongoing conflict is depriving the civilian population of food, medicines and fuel.
If we continue to rely on 1% of budgets, we will clearly fail to reach a reasonable solution for the European Union budget issue.
I believe that the social consequences resulting from the implementation of this directive must be assessed.
Lastly, I must welcome the creation by the Commission of a budget line, as yet without any appropriations, for an ad hoc financial instrument in order to adapt the fishing fleet to the economic consequences of fuel prices.
It is therefore abundantly clear that investing in health systems is essential in the fight against poverty.
They are protected by the Misleading Advertising Directive.
The adoption of the common position will now make it possible to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion before the end of this parliamentary term.
One of the most objectionable wordings is found in recital H, where it complains about 'a persistent desire on the part of Member States to act independently at the UN'.
(NL) Mr President, in principle I support the accession of Croatia to the European Union, but I did not vote in favour of this report.
Madam President, coming from Ireland, a country that also suffered a tragic famine over 150 years ago, I understand the Ukrainian desire to have the victims of their artificial famine from 1932 to 1933 commemorated.
The new agreement refers to the need to create a European TFTP (Terrorist Finance Tracking Program).
When we consider that next year is election year and that there will be a new Members' Statute, this has been a very challenging task and the end result is excellent.
The ball is firmly in national governments' courts to apply for this funding.
Food safety and consumer protection in the EU will thus be reinforced.
The victims of 20th-century totalitarian regimes must be the foundation of today's democracy in Europe.
The promotion of homosexuality to minors, if we open our eyes, may quite often mean significantly more - from encouraging them to try it, to the seduction of minors, even for homosexual prostitution.
In addition, they are especially interested in us providing them with help in matters associated with technical standards because for them they often represent real barriers to trade.
I have to point out that a negative vote will mean that the interim agreement will not enter into force on 1 February.
In particular, the untypical hours that typify working in the arts make it difficult to reconcile the female roles of worker, wife and mother, often forcing women to choose between career and family.
Schengen has worked extremely well and it is visible for all to see.
As you know, we recently launched an important initiative to promote these EU objectives.
The remaining provisions of Article 55 have not been amended.
The former command economy has been developed into an efficient market economy.
Many people actually think the automobile sector is the biggest European industry, but that is not true.
In my country, Finland, a restriction on working time would have a very adverse effect on self-employed drivers.
Twenty per cent for Parliament's budget, based on the administrative budget, was an upper limit that was laid down between the institutions in 1988.
We must be aware of the fact, in addition to its human rights violations, Russia is also becoming more imperialistic and, after a brief pause at the start of the nineties, is once again threatening its neighbours.
There might be a far bigger risk of baby-snatching than of six-year-olds being kidnapped.
It is also important to involve the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in our work in order to achieve the high quality that we are aiming for.
It will be resumed at 3 p.m. - shortly - with an oral question on the role of culture in the development of European regions.
The next item is the report by Mrs Anna Hedh, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the Consumer Markets Scoreboard.
This legislation will therefore contribute to reducing energy dependency in Europe, decreasing CO2 emissions, improving internal and external air quality, and increasing well-being in cities.
The second paragraph of this amendment seeks a financial participation of 70% from the European Community for measures to promote fruit and vegetables specifically for children in schools.
I think there is a real chance here of easing the situation somewhat.
They will have a greater impact and a lower cost to the taxpayer if we are able to coordinate our efforts.
(PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the situation of the sheep and goat sector indicates that the common agricultural policy is in crisis.
My group feels that three main elements are needed in that package.
It is important that the Lisbon Treaty focuses on the role of citizens and the responsibility of institutions.
I voted in favour of a ban on the trade in bluefin tuna and, as a corollary, compensation for the tuna industry, as provided for in an amendment which I co-signed and which was adopted in part.
Item 7 of the document I am referring to shows plainly that the European Parliament will not be able to monitor actions taken by Hamas, but only those carried out by Israel.
The Portuguese Presidency has set a standard that can serve as a good reference point for future presidencies, and we need to continue on this note.
Therefore, we call on the Council to work more actively in the field of conflict resolution.
This being the case, I cannot see how the automatic exchange of tax records might threaten to violate civil rights in the way some of my fellow Members seem to think it would.
Subject: The accession of Croatia into the European Union
Firstly, case-law: the Court has ruled that such a system could be justified under certain circumstances.
(EL) Sir, your speech is the result of poor information.
They would avoid having to finance an artificial system of support for producers through their taxes, and they would see lower prices in the shops.
I believe there is an urgent need to make these funds conditional.
It would be good if these amendments could be adopted as they would strengthen the directive on the European Works Council.
We of course remain realistic and do not expect any dramatic changes, but we believe that Mr Lukashenko's search for balancing relations with Moscow can provide an opportunity.
Against this background, the Commission remains confident that the European Union aid levels will increase again as of 2008 - this year.
In other words, actual consideration for those who are left behind.
I would have liked it to be at the core of the report.
The directive imposes on Member States the obligation either of making the decision to repatriate or of offering the right to stay to a third-country national.
Only recently, we abolished the Alfano law, which was invented by Mr Berlusconi to protect himself from the courts and from all the proceedings currently under way.
I should, however, like to mention in passing that we need infrastructures if we are to bring about the modal shifts that are required.
The only thing bogus in all these discussions is the scaremongering claims of people saying that there are road safety dangers associated here.
I am talking specifically about the independent authority that is to be set up to make what is always a very difficult decision: whether to admit a vessel in distress into a place of refuge.
Written statements (Rule 116): see Minutes
I have a vision of how the European product of the future will look.
in writing. - (FR) If ever there was a sensitive subject, it is surely the mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters.
The people need to respond to the celebrations and 'fiestas' marking the 60th anniversary of criminal imperialist action by ΝΑΤΟ by reinforcing the anti-imperialist peace movement, strengthening the grassroots demand that ΝΑΤΟ be disbanded...
We should not mislead European citizens in the European internal transport market.
We shall nevertheless continue to put the case for these fair measures.
I support the recommendation also that the blood alcohol limit be as close to 0.00% as possible especially for new drivers although I realise that a 0.00% limit is impractical.
It was a sign of Parliament's openness and accessibility - despite the fact that at that time Sweden was not a member of the Union.
Mr Kasoulides is right in saying that we have not given sufficient attention to the drugs issue.
I also support the proposal that access to public tenders and projects financed from EU funds should be made conditional upon a given company being able to demonstrate an anti-discriminatory pay policy.
in writing. - (PL) Whilst not undervaluing the importance of towns and large conurbations, it is important to keep in mind that the major part of European social and economic life takes place in rural areas.
Everyone in this Chamber knows that economic freedom, increased prosperity and the social model are mutually compatible.
I am particularly alarmed by the violence exerted by the police force against peaceful demonstrators.
Mr President, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that Europe has been impotent in the face of Russian aggression.
The debate on the report has been cancelled owing to the debate on the situation in Georgia, which is an urgent and important matter.
I hope they will respond to the Commissioner's appeal.
The report highlights the fact that these countries are often source countries for human trafficking, poverty and the domestic pay gap.
If these things do not reach citizens this time, I know one thing for sure, and that is that one can deck out large flagships, but they will soon be more flag than ship.
We simply have to take this matter very seriously.
Knowing that you are a fair-minded person, Commissioner, I believe we can count on your support for our proposal.
What was it we said at that time?
I would like to thank you for your support and I would also like to thank you in the name of my colleague, Johannes Hahn, who has responsibility for this area.
One-minute speeches on matters of political importance
You are familiar with the story yourself, having chaired a working group that, quite rightly, felt that the statute for assistants was an important matter.
Nonetheless, the Council has so far been unable to secure agreement.
Harmonisation of family and working life is one of the main prerequisites for increasing female employment.
Firstly, now that there are an increasing number of obese children in Europe, we as a society will need to invest more in teaching healthy eating habits.
Such a duty can only be imposed upon an agency and should not be placed on a civil organisation.
She had been rejected not on grounds of intellectual ability, but because she has a disability.
I hope Romania and Bulgaria shall receive the same treatment as soon as possible and I encourage the other Member States to follow the example of France.
Mr President, in this Chamber a moment ago, I heard a call not to sign the understanding with the Mexican authorities.
China is a global player in the contemporary world, and we would like to see China as a real partner of the European Union in the process of globalisation.
The problem is that it is suppressed with fire and sword.
We also do not wish to be obliged to resettle dangerous terrorists from the Guantánamo Bay detention camp.
It also previously strengthened the provisions for consumer protection to ensure that the use of a food enzyme does not mislead the consumer as to the nature, quality and substance of a product, which is why this concept is reintroduced.
- Madam President, I think our constituents would be interested to see how far we have gone in these fields.
For the present, it is a challenge for us to ensure that the EEAS functions well and in the interests of all: the European citizens, the Member States and the European Union.
(FR) Mr President, there is something that is really bothering me.
Approval of Minutes of previous sitting: see Minutes
It is only in Kosovo that we have seen things happening at lightning speed.
Thank you as well for the quality of this debate.
This will perhaps at some point cause him to leave this House but, for the time being, it is a cause for celebration, both for himself and certainly for many of us.
The approaches have provided for the targeted breakdown and intimidation of the opposition, by massive changes in election legislation, the imprisonment and elimination of potential opponents such as Khodorkovsky and the repeated arrests of Garry Kasparov.
I was glad to find such a level of ambition around the table.
Mr President, in thanking the rapporteur for his report, I recognise his efforts to try and get a first-reading agreement on this important dossier.
Tell that to your European Council colleague, President Sarkozy, for it is not right that people in the European Union constantly pop up with conflicting messages.
(DE) Mr President, again and again we are told that this Treaty of Lisbon will make Europe functional.
The concentration of media ownership is also a problem, since it encourages the emergence of monopolies.
For that reason, I will make the speech for the Committee on Budgets for him.
in writing. - (RO) According to Eurostat, in 2007, the real prices of agricultural products increased 5% in the Union as compared to 2006, and the biggest increase, of 15.8%, was recorded in Romania.
Globalisation, European financial integration and market consolidation, which have affected the organisation and outsourcing of operations to provide these services, have further added to the complexities.
I would like to end by congratulating the two rapporteurs, particularly Mrs Anastase, as well as the Commissioner for her productive contribution in revealing the common priorities of these two structures.
We therefore have enormous expectations of this summit, which is intended to show that, in both the US and Europe, the political will to regulate capitalism and to regulate the financial institutions is still present.
They are not stupid, and they know that the Commission gerrymandered its legislative agenda so that no bad news entered the Irish media's bloodstream.
However, I can tell you all that there are double standards: the legislation is not applied in a uniform manner and there are even different penalties for the same activities.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Madam President, this summer may be the first without ice in the Arctic.
I wish to denounce a politically undignified manoeuvre by the Italian Socialists, taken up by certain of my fellow Members, which is unworthy of the challenges we face.
It is important that our policy of engagement has been openly supported by representatives of civil society in Belarus, who took part recently in a very helpful discussion with Members of this Parliament.
Also, with regard to the directive's scope and relevance, it seems that the directive is touching the aviation business in one of its sore points.
Coal utilisation can also include the non-conventional method of its underground gasification.
If these two phrases are removed from the amendment, we would be willing to support it.
How should we react to this?
As far as the matter of 'home-grown players' is concerned, a short time ago the European Commission was handed the results of an independent expert report analysing UEFA's rules.
Several speakers have, quite rightly, referred to the violence, persecution and attacks targeting the Christian community in general and the Christian community in Orissa in particular.
the constant harassment of Frontex aircraft by Turkish aircraft;
Therefore, under the given circumstances, the ALDE Group shadow rapporteur would support this document, and our political group will follow her recommendations during the vote.
Is the Council making enough use of the eponymous talents of the British Consul General in Jerusalem, Mr Makepeace?
They naturally highlighted the mobility-related issues we all recognise and still face.
The migration situation is different in each country making up the European Union.
We need to seize this opportunity to move forward.
As a result, we cannot take a regional approach.
No executions have been carried out since February 1998 and, in 2007, Amnesty International categorised South Korea as a country that has virtually abolished capital punishment.
We have the experience of being the world's largest economy and its largest exporter.
As long as the decision is taken quickly and people know that the money is on its way, it is possible to plan even before the money actually arrives.
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, we have before us today two very important reports.
At the same time, it is important that when the objectives of the 2020 strategy are adopted, the decision-makers have available accurate data as regards the level and proportion of poverty in society.
We will now proceed to the final establishment of the order of business.
In fact, statistics are showing an enormous increase in not only those who are unemployed, especially among the youth, but also an increase in the social inequalities and levels of poverty.
The President of the Republic's predecessor, Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, considers it to be an aberrant distortion of our democratic system.
We then need to develop the coordination mechanisms that are essential to enable us to take effective action.
None of us can imagine working without this new technology today.
President-in-Office, your Presidency has not been bad.
My second point has already been mentioned.
(FR) Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Kyrgyzstan is, in fact, particularly unstable.
This, unfortunately, is how it ends, and we had an example of this with the introduction of the euro.
I think that, once the elections are over in Russia, this will again be possible, and I also hope that it will stop Russia from proceeding down the wrong economic path.
I want to join those who have praised the excellent progress that has been made in this matter and the splendid work that the Swedish Presidency has done, on account of which we can now grant discharge.
But that is not how it should happen in a rational system.
That is why it must be countered as energetically as possible.
Further clarification of elements of the VAT Directive such as the Right to Deduct will benefit SMEs who could have been faced with unnecessary bureaucracy under old provisions.
Because what statistics there are show that China is executing more people than the rest of the world put together at the moment.
Action favouring the industry that is linked to culture should be supported.
We are discussing it at a time of major difficulties, at a crucial time for the European Union food supply chain.
I would say to Mr Gklavakis that we have had lots of discussions, and I always enjoy discussing this with him.
We need a very strong voice at European level so that global deforestation is tackled.
Over the next 20 years we shall not obtain any genuine harmonised targets in Europe.
The relocation of energy-intensive industries to areas with lower ecological standards means more than job losses in Europe.
I also very much believe that the right way forward is indeed first of all to build on the assets of the outermost regions, That was stressed by several Members.
(ES) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the recent conclusion of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) World Summit on Food Security, I would like to express my disappointment at its limited social, media and political impact.
For this reason, I defended the importance of medical advice for women on the potential benefits to be gained from physical activity during pregnancy and after childbirth.
Can I just add a couple of things that, ideally, we should not do.
Most people regard Dover as no better than a thief, a crook who should be in jail, and I invite you, Mr President, to tell us how much of that money has now been repaid.
The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the EU-Russia Summit.
Recent developments have shown that, even in those cases where in the last couple of years governments started to show more openness on how public money and resources were spent, they have gone back to a less transparent administration.
It is clear that European companies deserve a system of corporate taxation adapted to the degree of their actual and potential economic integration at the scale of their cross-border activities in Europe.
Breaking down the barriers to transatlantic economic integration will promote mutual prosperity.
This accusation is undoubtedly exaggerated, but it is important to recognise that this is the European public's perception.
Cooperation between the European Union and the International Labour Organisation (ILO) has therefore become a key item on our agenda.
My main concern is the immediate and long-term fate of the Iraqis forced to flee their own country.
In any case, we shall have a definite date fixed to enable the Council to take the necessary decisions.
One thing was that the daylight disappears in the evening.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, rarely has EU legislation affected so many.
I asked to have references to the EAS removed during the drafting stage, but other political groups refused.
This intensification is due in particular to the production of biofuels and biomass.
I should also mention recent consultations with the Russian Federation, which were held in April.
I was surprised that the recommendations made by the ECOFIN Council did not take into account the measures which the new Romanian Government announced through its government programme and has started to implement by adopting the 2009 budget.
I wonder whether Europe actually needs to say 'thank you', nowadays, if Member States in the euro area simply keep to the rules, in other words, if they manage to get back to the 3% criterion.
Mrs Cathy Ashton was nominated to the Commission with the full confidence of the UK Government.
The main reason for that is probably that the benefit gained has already been renounced in some degree: in the Nice talks Finland agreed to have 13 Members.
Therefore, from a Danish perspective this resolution is absurd.
This brings me to your second question.
Since then, there have been many developments, such as the Bali Agreement last December.
It is the duty of the Maltese Government to identify which special measures would be best suited and, subsequently, to apply to the EU to adopt such measures.
It demand selflessness, sharing and putting others first.
I should like to mention four points in particular.
A final word on the international dimension, which, I was delighted to see, is prominent in your report.
It will not be possible to achieve peaceful agreements, which we need, if this fact is not understood.
Mr President, our institutions will be called upon to implement the so-called 'democratic method' by establishing a special partnership with a view to defining, implementing and, above all, safeguarding the true interest of Europe.
A tragic flaw in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child on which this is based is that, although it guarantees primary education for all children, it makes specific educational provision needed by disabled children 'subject to resources'.
The current form of development aid is an unsuitable tool for this purpose, as lots of funds disappear into dark channels or are diverted back into European bank accounts belonging to corrupt despots.
Transformation takes time, and it is in our shared interest to take every opportunity to encourage further positive developments.
Agreeing on degressive proportionality in forming the future European Parliament is a clear expression of that solidarity, and I am grateful for it.
The authorities of the Member States must not only refrain from such conduct, but also set an example in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
Fourth fact: we have already been in this situation and we found a solution.
None of them has so far been able to explain to me what they are actually trying to achieve.
Nothing is more important than the health, wellbeing and future of our children.
As Mr Ulmer said earlier on, we have moved on to the agenda and we are debating the day-to-day business of this House, food safety and so on, without really being aware of what priority issues we need to resolve.
These are priorities, and they should remain as such, including in this difficult period.
Those of us who had doubts about the euro project have been vindicated.
On the economic side, the macro-economic framework presented in New York must be more rigorous and combined with a clear path towards employment and growth, which will break the cycle of poverty and inequality.
We now need objective risk assessments to find a balance between the justified health and environmental requirements and the justified concerns of business and food safety, including within a worldwide comparison.
This regulation constitutes an important framework which needs to be developed upon by the respective Member States.
Well, in the same way I believe in the power of unitary negotiations and I must say that, with Mr Mate, we shall really work hard and with great determination.
- I should like to thank you all for your contributions on this important topic and also thank the Commissioner, the staff and the interpreters.
I believe we should be honest to the people out there and say, yes, we can give money, and yes, we can set up communication structures.
This Charter, as of today, will be at the service of the external policy of the European Union which aims to establish a world in which all these rights and freedoms are universally respected and guaranteed.
in writing. - (HU) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now been debating the details of this legislative package on plant protection products for a good many months.
We should be clear that it would be fitting to consider a strategy for how to deal with this situation.
For the first time in a long time - for centuries - it is again free.
Why are we effectively ignoring the democratic will of the Irish people, who voted to reject the treaty a year ago?
Today, when reforming the common agricultural policy is a particularly important topic for the European Union, we should take into account the current condition of the agrarian sector in the new Member States as well.
It is the responsibility of the assemblies and the politicians of Madagascar to decide on the most effective form of consultation.
(SV) Madam President, thank you, Mr Andersson, for an important report.
The report shows that the estimated amount of irregularities fell by 34%.
This means that our problems will create problems there, so this is not a national issue.
Of course issues relating to racial hatred must be treated very seriously indeed.
My final point concerns mutual relations between the Council and Parliament.
in writing. - (RO) Mr. President, dear colleagues,
I want to deal with a specific issue relating to mobility, which we all agree is necessary and is good for Europe.
You were forced to act only because of pressure from, and action by, the Irish Farmers' Association, which was reported in the Irish Farmers' Journal and followed up by this House.
It is in the interests of citizens to have safe, cheap products and pesticide-free drinking water.
The European Union shows significant discrepancies in terms of the economic situation of companies and the population, which means that fines imposed for the same traffic offence cannot be the same across the board in all Member States.
In the new text, we have added new transparency requirements which are of the utmost importance.
This is much higher than the amount currently available.
We can also do something on the demand side.
We were also told exactly what has been said here, that there was a willingness to toe the line.
I should also add that by all performance indicators the Krško nuclear power station is one of the safest nuclear power plants in the world.
It would seem that many governments have not properly appreciated what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines mean.
Participation in the European Union's Partnership Programme offers such opportunities.
Germany, in particular, has already gone far beyond previous stipulations from Brussels.
Women therefore already have to deal with more uncertainty, poor accrual of pensions and inadequate medical expenses.
It cannot, however, be a justification for inequality in the distribution of financial means.
The idea behind this report is such that hardly anyone here can disagree with its objectives.
We have listened carefully and are taking due notice of everything that has been said.
This means that almost 10 years of work are thus being crowned with success.
It is absolutely astounding to see what the prospect of membership can bring about as a force for change, for democracy-building, in a country such as Turkey.
Is it true that funds are lacking, that investments have been made in Luxemburgish funds, God knows which?
(Parliament agreed to accept the oral amendment)
Firstly, Mr Barroso, I have still not received an answer to the question about the need for these genetically-modified potatoes, which are simply intended to provide industrial starch.
The important thing is that we allow them to join the euro area as soon as possible.
Medical science is still unable to stop cancer, which is becoming one of the greatest plagues of humanity.
This approach ignores the actual risk involved in applying these agents down on the farm.
So, yes, it was a good day for Europe, and the day on which this treaty is finally ratified will be an even better day.
That is why I say, Mr President of the Commission, that your advice to the Council Presidency is not enough.
The EU unemployment rate hit 10% at the start of the year, with the rate of youth unemployment even reaching 20%.
Madam President, in the European Union we are currently facing growing social stratification.
Do you think that, if Georgia had been in NATO, Article 5 would have been mobilised?
I accept that there are different opinions; that is normal for parliaments.
I find it unacceptable that the Beneš Decrees are being used in this way, that this issue may perhaps be reopened and that the signature may be delayed.
Industry will be able to enjoy more consistent legislation which will facilitate international trade.
Most of Turkey is not geographically part of Europe.
Lastly, this decision, if approved under the conditions that I have just mentioned, will have to be accompanied by significantly stricter controls to combat illegal fishing.
In the rural development sector, the Commission measure proposes the introduction of appropriate updates to Council Regulation No 1698/2005 that are designed to implement the guidelines of the said European plan.
I should like very briefly to single out a few items that were raised specifically during the debate.
Several people have pointed out to me that their separate action plans for energy efficiency do not belong in this report.
There must be coordination between the authorities at local, national and European level in their efforts to rebuild the affected areas.
As I have stated since the outset of discussions, I do not support calls for legislative action to introduce an ill-thought-out system of collective redress in the EU.
My last point is indeed a positive one: youth cooperation in science and technology.
(EL) Mr President, according to the provisions of the CMO in tobacco, from 2009 the resources that are now given as direct subsidies to growers from pillar 1 will be transferred to pillar 2, which deals with structural measures.
That is why, Commissioner, it is vital that we change the numbers in our health cooperation.
I should like to add that enough is enough.
Good educational opportunities must be ensured, including opportunities for practical and educational placements, both in existing EU Member States and in neighbouring countries.
They also visited the dispatching centre and then the next day they travelled to Berlin to meet the Gazprom representative on 6 January 2009.
It is for each individual Member State to decide whether or not to rely on nuclear power for the generation of electricity and launch new projects or go ahead with a nuclear phase-out policy.
They have to make choices on the basis of labelling, and they must be able to have faith in the impeccable quality of feed.
Parliamentary life is an expression of life in general, it is a life that changes, a life that we need to react to.
It is contemptible that the EU attempts to bury such provisions in these types of reports, and then requires MEPs to vote on them as a whole and not individual parts.
We wish to protest against the ban on the activities of this organisation.
The second lesson is that, in most Member States, the deposit guarantee schemes need to be reworked due to the new requirements.
We need to end this period of defining institutional structures and to face the major issues which still prevent Europe from being able to compete on an equal footing with its international partners.
In close cooperation with the Presidency and the Member States, we continue to explore the ways in which we can best contribute to the solution of this crisis.
Preventing this threat is obviously a political priority.
If we do not grasp this challenge right now and look forward beyond this crisis, we will leave behind a legacy of such awful proportions that a billion people will find themselves unable to live.
We have over a hundred thousand reasons for acting now, without delay; all we need is the political will.
For this reason it is with some embarrassment that I am standing up to speak about Burma.
The fact that all political groups are behind it, I think, is significant.
We need to support projects which strengthen interethnic coexistence and cooperation.
The IASB is working on IFRS standards for small and medium enterprises.
Approximately 37 000 deaths are estimated to occur every year because of these infections.
As you know, the Committee on Budgets voted on more than 1 600 amendments to the 2008 draft budget.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
I have to say, however, that subsequently, bearing in mind that there were other more important dossiers, we did have some problems when it came to understanding the motives of the Legal Service.
Besides, whether the lifestyle of the political classes bears any relation to the living conditions of the vast majority of the population or not says something fundamental about the democratic nature of a society.
You take with you our good wishes that you will be able to discharge in full your duties as President-in-Office of the European Council and will do everything to achieve agreement on the Treaty of Lisbon in your country also.
I feel that this is appropriate in those countries where the practice has developed because of the Catholic tradition of having a cross in schools, especially in faith schools.
(PL) The European Union has decided to make a charge for emissions of carbon dioxide.
He thinks it is we parliamentarians.
They teach us, in the most direct way, that we are, at one and the same time, the same and different.'
It is also important for Community aid to reach all the interested groups of citizens.
European Ombudsman. - Mr President, thank you for this opportunity to address Parliament on my annual report for 2008.
That is the way we can achieve more jobs.
The rapporteur's amendment does not improve the issue either.
The text must be in black lettering, with a black border of minimum 3 mm and maximum 4 mm thickness, the font must be Helvetica, and so on and so forth.
in writing. - (RO) I decided that abstention is the position that expresses in the best way the heterogeneous content of the report.
Finally, the laws concerning energy consumption, transport, the environment, digital technology and so on need to be included in the review of the acquis.
It is therefore in a company's best interests to keep its workforce in good health.
I am not the only one to deplore this state of affairs.
Mr Schulz wrote a letter to 27 Heads of State and Government calling for a change in economic direction, binding social standards and greater social protection.
It is a system of values protecting their fundamental rights.
(DE) Mr President, the only question is why your group, Mrs Ernst, has not tabled an amendment in plenary?
Which, this time, is not Soviet but European.
The Commission itself admits, on its own figures, that most consumers do not roam: 70% of consumers do not roam at all during a year.
We all owe it to our citizens to make constructive policy for Europe together.
I welcome moves in the future funding streams towards more thematic activity, be it the Lisbon Agenda, the promotion of a knowledge economy, the promotion of R&D, cross-border cooperation or, indeed, support for the fisheries sector under the Lisbon Agenda.
Via their financial market regulators they must demand transparent accounting methods and prudent lending criteria from financial institutions.
Furthermore, I would like to stress that it is very important, in my opinion, to have greater participation of women in political life and in public life in general.
Let me first thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the report, which embraces numerous areas such as climate change, poverty alleviation and development.
The Czech Republic is drawing up an account of its six-month leadership of the European Council for a different Parliament to the one that was in place when it assumed the role.
The Council conclusions in January indicated that the EU is developing a 'work plan' for a lasting ceasefire.
For you know as well as I do that there are quite a few of these in Europe.
Poverty is increasing, in single-parent families as well as in large families, not only because of lack of income, but also because of a lack of social support and equal treatment, especially in taxation.
Firstly, we do not approve of the way the third country arrogantly ignores and rejects the EU as its equal and respected partner in matters of external energy security that are important to the European Union.
On the issue of WTO accession, the Commission is in full agreement that this is a key issue.
Where this approach has not been followed, difficulties have arisen in certain Member States.
As we know, Mr Sutherland at present heads two supranational giants: BP and Goldman Sachs International.
The rhythm of contacts between us has gathered pace, and there is now a shared understanding of the benefits of greater cooperation on security matters, border management and controls, education, governance and energy diversification.
In an area that permits freedom of movement, such as ours, the decisions taken by one Member State will have an immediate effect on neighbouring countries.
It helps to fund measures like the regeneration of industrial areas affected by the reduction of towns and villages.
For that we need money and we need our economy to grow.
It is also a prerequisite for achieving the EU's objectives of economic growth, employment and social cohesion.
In the report two other issues are also raised with which the Commission cannot fully agree at this point in time.
The results of work conducted by scientists show that the effects of climate change are going to have an increasing influence on the natural environment and the economy as well as on our daily lives.
In a competitive market such as the car market, competition law should not interfere with the balance of powers between the different contracting parties.
Hundreds of defenceless people have died in the conflict zone since the middle of January.
In accordance with the legal basis of Article 165 of the treaty, the Council Recommendation on measures to combat neurodegenerative diseases calls for Parliament to be consulted.
Recent developments demonstrate clearly the risks involved in raising the quota.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, the Russian Federation is a country with which we desperately want to conclude strategic partnerships.
In certain parts of Europe the fruit wine tradition dates as far back as the 12th century.
This can indeed be done by enhancing cooperation between civil servants with a sufficiently high level of knowledge.
We believe in linking national interests and we do not accept that it is right for each nation to retreat into its shell.
We want to see young Serbs participating very soon in our education and youth programmes which we opened up with effect from 2007.
However, ultimately, before we build a multi-speed institutional Europe, I would like us to try to do it all together.
At the same time, to make sure that testing is available, and treatment and care where needed.
It shows that we are a long way from the objective of making the Union a Europe for Citizens.
There is a triple-lock safety net there to make sure that this cannot happen.
Recognising the importance of the web, we have created a dedicated website with comprehensive information on the Lisbon Treaty which was launched in the 23 official languages.
The European Parliament and the Australian Parliament began their direct and wide-ranging political dialogue in 1981.
It also depends on full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
In this case we proposed a practicable solution whereby the decision on liberalisation would not be taken until a study had been presented in 2012.
Mrs Pack was quite right when she said, using a sentence of Wim Wenders, that we need European images to tell European stories, to express the diversity of European history and of European sensibilities.
All this must, however, take place in accordance with the financial framework established for the 2007-2013 period.
By standardising transactions and ensuring that the clearing houses are independent, very significant progress will be made.
I expect a large number of responses to the Green Paper from the many stakeholder organisations in the field of health that have expressed concerns about this important issue.
Even if they end up not endorsing it, various countries could adopt it in their national generally accepted accounting principles.
We must therefore understand properly what the question is here, and in the Commission, we thought quite early on - President Barroso has expressed his feeling on this subject, as has Olli Rehn - that transparency would have great benefits.
That is a message, President Pöttering, that we must also convey to European taxpayers.
During the subsequent period, the national target set for the use of renewable energy sources in generating electricity will be met if the following measures are taken:
The shipyards may have been poorly managed, and difficult restructuring may have been repeatedly postponed, but one thing is certain, and that is that they did not resort to such downright irresponsible and dubious dealings as the banking sector did.
Indeed, we have recently been trying to give concrete expression to this strategy through prevention, unlike the early years of its application, when we put much more emphasis on detection.
We have to act against this not only for the benefit of the majority of society, but also for the benefit of the honest Gipsy people.
(DA) Madam President, in Russia, there is freedom of the press in name only, not in practice.
Can it be established, and, particularly, can we in Parliament do anything to help establish those facts?
The Commission's visits are being followed with great interest, and citizens crying out against illegal tipping are announcing on television that petitions are being sent to the European Parliament.
We must pass these on to the Member States, where possible, with this essential objective.
Research needs funding; innovative businesses need funding; world class-innovation needs world-class funding.
There are six very precise corrections designed to plug the gaps in women's insurance as a result, for example, of maternity and their family commitments.
in writing. - I support the resolution on Gaza and support calls for an immediate cease-fire.
I welcome the adoption of this report, which forms an integral part of the energy package adopted today, because, in my view, it represents another important step towards improving the quality of life of European citizens.
A substantial share of the Member States' health budgets has to be allocated to combating the problems raised by overweight.
We Swedish Social Democrats chose today to vote in favour of the priorities for the 2011 budget.
Those with political responsibility in Iran are currently responding to this legitimate will of society with repression by the State extending as far as the death penalty.
And then, from 2004 on, they have been covered by Article 90 of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants, which is why they are now called AICs.
In preparing this strategy, the Culture Minister is taking into account the European Charter and other international instruments, including the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
I will direct a question to the European Commission: how many Polish children have to pay with their lives due to construction of the bypass being blocked?
And yes, the gender care gap is closing, with more men who take their share of unpaid care'.
Texts of agreements forwarded by the Council: see Minutes
We can count on it becoming operational towards the end of 2009, which is also reflected in our staffing reserves.
This is another blow to Sarkozy and the French Government: Parliament has said 'no' to Sarkozy on both form and content.
I certainly do not underestimate the hard work and, as Mr Capoulas Santos mentioned himself, the number of amendments certainly did not make the task any easier in trying to find the middle ground for the landing zone.
The cohesion policy is vital for the communities in the underdeveloped regions and sub-regions.
This was a proper decision of the College, and Parliament was extensively informed immediately afterwards.
What I find most encouraging is that the Ombudsman works at so many different levels: it is not just about processing complaints, which is central to his work, but also about how resolutions or solutions are arrived at.
We should treat our social partners a little more seriously.
These two divisions translate into support by Christians and Muslims for different political groups, which is, as it were, an extension of the conflict.
From next year we will also have a complete list of all recipients of agricultural spending.
In 2005 the Commission adopted a communication to launch the debate on a Community approach regarding the ecolabelling programmes for fishery products.
Mr President, passenger rights must be put at the heart of transport policy as a whole - particularly here in the European Union.
It is certainly an interference in the democratic right of this Parliament to have decent and democratic relations with our opposite numbers, elected by the Palestinian people.
However, we take scientific reports showing that the seas are being fished out very seriously indeed.
We also point out that the Commission should get rather more involved than it has been when making legislation.
Yet even your most recent forecast promises growth in EU GDP of just 0.1% in the fourth quarter of 2009.
After the Missing Persons Institute and following the semi-colon, we should change the sentence.
It is unacceptable because, I insist, we are losing all credibility and all legitimacy to be able to express an opinion on these types of cases.
To date the conflict in Sudan has claimed 300 000 victims and created two and a half million internally displaced persons.
The fight against terrorism can never be used to diminish the level of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
If the situation should change, the Commission will, of course, investigate and, if necessary, propose measures governing other substances.
in writing. - While we all acknowledge and support the role that SMEs play in international trade, it is a real shame that a large part of this report was dedicated to defending so-called Trade Defence Instruments.
What we need in order to deal with this situation is money, resources, and real support.
Another thing which we were behind and actually succeeded in getting through together with the Council was preventing the proposal for a reduced classification threshold of 10 kg.
On the privacy front, I have to say that the decision by the UK Government to overturn child-protection laws in order to introduce body scanners is nothing short of a scandal.
A majority of the EP wants to delete the 'territoriality clause' agreed by the Council (which would allow a Member State to refuse a European Evidence Warrant under certain conditions), thereby attacking Member State sovereignty.
This is the best way, and we should promote it.
Let us hope that we can get the work done in the next few weeks.
Secondly, the Statistical Governance Advisory Board is a useful complement to the Advisory Committee.
That is the only way to get people to make wise decisions in the long term.
Obviously price stability is the top priority in the economy, If that continues to be so in the future, that can only be positive.
It does not make the people dependent, because they can decide for themselves what they will spend the money on.
I would like to welcome the Commission's initiative in presenting an action plan for implementing the Stockholm Programme so that we can ensure that European citizens will actually enjoy the benefits of an area of freedom, security and justice.
One of the largest migrant communities in Ireland is British.
Each of these states is following its own path of development.
(RO) I must begin by congratulating the European Investment Bank for the efforts it has made aimed at achieving the Community objectives.
I note with interest the report's proposal on a European Economic Area Plus for relations with countries that are not part of the current enlargement agenda.
Madam President, I would like to reply to Mr França.
It is hard for us sitting here in this Chamber to truly comprehend the bravery, the courage and strength required by human rights activists like Shirin Ebadi to function in Iran and stand up to the dictatorship.
Commissioner, we must be consistent and, if we are to be consistent, we will do everything to save Qimonda.
That is why we believe that this issue should be resolved via an intergovernmental conference that could quickly approve the appointment of these Members.
According to the recent special report by the Court of Auditors, the fund is well managed and delivers quick, efficient and flexible assistance.
When governments sign the Treaty they assume a responsibility to have it ratified.
I also wonder what the difference was last year when Ireland faced the same situation and instituted hard cuts.
These matters are especially important to me, and I have demonstrated this many times, for example at meetings of what is known as the Rehabilitation Parliament of the Voivodeship of Sub-Carpathia - there have been 18 of them.
However, I am opposed to the European Union carrying out this function.
Infringements of fundamental rights, as in the times of the emergency laws, will not solve the problem alone.
One of the consequences is the need to have some higher balance exemptions, and I welcome the grandfathering of some socially relevant higher balanced provisions that were in place by the start of 2008.
This leads to armed conflicts, migration and destabilisation.
We expect this to change in the future as Greek markets open up as a result of MiFID, and as Greek firms see more opportunities in other Member States.
When we talk about the transport sector, 10% needs to come from renewable energies by 2020, and here the agricultural sector was the first supplier - and is at this stage the only supplier.
We know from our own experience that socially marginalised groups live here.
They should be given financial assistance, as I believe, even though the sum involved is not so great, this would be a direct and urgently needed expression of European solidarity.
Now, I have no choice but to repeat my question, because the new document does not say a word as to why this failure happened.
I would like to say something, although doing so will not bring me any satisfaction.
I voted 'no' to the question of whether we consider Barroso II suitable as a motor, initiator and inspirer of the European project.
It is less and less based on solidarity or on mutual agreements between nations; rather it is an order that is disrupting nations and creating a conflict between the winners and the losers.
I shall therefore submit recital B as having been amended orally.
We should be pleased if, during the Portuguese Presidency, we could at least make significant progress even if we cannot reach full agreement.
The European Parliament should give a clear lead for the country towards European integration.
We should not be unfair: we need to be able to differentiate what is really endangering bluefin tuna, which is this type of industrial fishing - seine fishing - from traditional fishing methods.
Signature of acts adopted under codecision: see Minutes
Therefore, the war against drug traffickers comes on top of a war between rival criminal gangs, resulting in a series of murders of exceptional brutality.
Such statements do not advance a healthy debate on equality.
The cormorant was put under protection a long time ago, when there were only a few breeding colonies left in Europe.
in writing. - I support Richard Corbett's report amending the Rules of Procedure regarding the formation of political groups.
Nevertheless, we have to make sure that a bigger share of this money reaches every student.
Regarding Ukraine, there will be a summit, and we will move things forward.
The European Football Championship in Austria and Switzerland gives us the opportunity to draw attention to this.
However, at the same time I firmly believe that the principles of the Charter also need to be included in a robust energy agreement within the framework of the post-PCA agreement with Russia.
Equally important is the simplification of the budget procedure.
So I believe that each of us, when using energy, should try to use it as efficiently as possible and follow the trend of using greener energy, supporting this even it if it costs a bit more.
Our naval operation Atalanta has been widely hailed as a success.
I voted in favour of the report on university-business dialogue because, in my opinion, it is essential that the link between training and the labour market should be improved.
The European Commission should support this initiative and cooperate with this network with a view to exchanging information and good practice.
In fact, this country has become one of the poorest countries in the world, with the large majority of the population there living on less than a dollar a day.
On 3 April 2008, he was sentenced to three-and-a-half years in prison.
Only if we pull all these things together will the statistics add up - and that means the people will add up.
Thanks to the efforts of the French Presidency, we have achieved the necessary compromises.
(RO) Ladies and Gentleman, I would like to take this opportunity to plead once more for stronger involvement of the European Union in the improvement of health services in the European Union Member States.
This report fits within the vision of 'trans-European transport networks' based on the expansion of the internal market and an increase in capitalist competition and concentration.
Unfortunately, the actual administration of this fund is not very efficient, so help often arrives after many months of delay.
We are also in favour of greater judicial control; and so I consider the proposal of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe to be extremely sensible, and shall give it my support.
However, this should not be a common market for deregulation, but a common market based on the foundations or on the principles of a social market economy, with sensible and appropriate regulations where these are required.
This could and should also be used for these purposes.
In this respect, the declaration of 16 June 2008 includes some very clear statements both on the political context surrounding the upgrading and on the messages that Europe intends to send to Israel on this occasion.
The role of farmers needs to undergo a radical change: by systemising agricultural production farmers become agricultural entrepreneurs, and thus promote economic development.
The new Member States are in the advantageous position of being able to share the experience of the transitional period with other regions of the world.
A Europe in which the concept of responsible freedom does not cover solely the free movement of capital and in which citizens pool their abilities irrespective of their social status.
Improving European legislation is a prerequisite for combating discrimination - I repeat, it is a prerequisite.
What we have seen over the last few days was the search for the lowest common denominator: nationalisation and politicisation.
The whole concept behind these guidelines on flexicurity is to tackle the challenges faced by the labour markets of Europe.
How can we negotiate with Porfirio Lobo Sosa's putschist government in Honduras and then claim to be guardians of the rule of law and human rights?
I urge the Council and Commission to follow that approach.
Could we do it in a more cognate manner, or were we waiting for somebody to do it instead of us?
This did not happen by chance, but is a result of strong political will expressed at various G20 summits.
You need to help Greece, because otherwise, 40%, who are young university graduates, will have no jobs.
The UK Independence Party MEPs will therefore vote against this report in the interests of protecting our borders against further illegal immigration.
It will pave the way for a partnership essential to our own security and help us encourage greater regional cooperation, so vital for the stability of Central Asia.
Many targets set as part of Europe 2020 will be reviewed at the June meeting.
We Social Democrats in particular have put forward a few opinions.
We have to move forward now and adopt a report and reach a compromise and a position in order that farmers in Europe know exactly where they are going.
I can tell you, as I told the Foreign Minister, Tzipi Livni, when we met her in Lisbon, that we have a special reflection group.
We need to keep in mind that the EU and the United States are close allies.
Now it is the turn of the private sector to replenish the coffers.
I think the debate about the euro and why it has been to the advantage of Ireland to belong to the euro area is going well now, but it raises the basic question of who will advocate the European Union.
The ALDE Group has tabled a proposal to place 12% of the funds from the Structural Funds programmes in reserve.
Perhaps the rapporteur will comment in his response as to why they are sufficient.
Perhaps this, ladies and gentlemen, is a discussion point that could be added to the debate on the fight against terrorism?
We will not be able to develop a joint health care strategy if the appropriate statistical institutions do not have the relevant data.
The proposals completely abolish intervention and reduce agricultural subsidies from 2009. This will hasten the demise of small and medium-sized holdings.
It will be approximately between EUR 1.5 million and EUR 1.7 million every year.
This is especially important for smaller Member States, where we might lack a supply of new services if Article 5 is not correctly solved.
The informal care system will collapse without proper support, while with an exclusively state-based approach, the costs will simply be too high.
We consider each of these languages as an asset to the European Union and as part, if you like, of the cultural heritage which we currently have in the European Union.
We must somehow move from constraint to contract.
If Afghanistan constitutes a test for NATO, then energy security is certainly a test of the European Union's mettle and maturity.
They are waiting for this protection, which - as you rightly said - now needs to come out from behind closed doors, not only at national level but also at European level.
This report provides rules for the movement of pets within the European area and how this should be done in accordance with the objectives of preventing the spread of diseases, particularly rabies.
We must apply to the real economy the same approach that we used successfully when the financial crisis erupted: defining clear principles and coordinated measures at European Union level.
The same problem also arises in Southern Europe, and therefore finding a solution to the question of water management in the future common agricultural policy is of particular importance.
With just 48 days left to the opening of the UN's major Conference on Climate Change, it is high time that political will was transformed into concrete actions.
We have moved on in the meantime and have clarified these issues.
We therefore have to work on preparing these possible tools and measures, through which we can promote positive change.
Firstly, it means that the risk assessment model is much more precise, much more accurate.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the various contributions put forward during this debate.
Regarding the issue of the automobile industry, there is a problem of over-capacity in Europe and in the world.
I must also ask you to continue working for passenger information and passenger rights.
Approval of the minutes of the previous sitting: see Minutes
The use of passports by children according to the principle of 'one person-one passport' may be a fundamental means of winning this difficult and important battle.
Sustainable development of urban areas is extremely challenging in the twenty first century and the Framework presented by Mrs Kallenbach today can help us to face this challenge.
After most amendments were adopted, in the final vote I voted for the report by Mr Chris Davies.
Nevertheless, time is still spent debating whether we are a hundred per cent certain that humans are causing climate change or not.
We will therefore have to uphold our legitimate demands on China.
The EU's structural policy is caught up in a massive vicious circle of bureaucracy.
The investigation of accidents in the field of maritime transport has been discussed with shadow rapporteurs and with the Presidency.
According to the medical data, cancer is the second biggest cause of mortality in Europe, affecting men and women equally.
I am the Development Committee's rapporteur on the Erasmus Mundus programme and my report has recently been adopted unanimously.
We must show that we will find the right way to secure the efficient and democratic Europe the Treaty has been designed to deliver.
Seeing the crisis as an opportunity is something that has been repeated a lot this evening.
The Spanish Presidency's main interest is the Mediterranean area, which can bring major benefits to Romania as well.
As the extraordinary measure it is, the EGAF should be financed autonomously, and it is a very serious mistake for the EGAF, a short-term measure, to be funded at the expense of the ESF or any other structural fund.
Therefore, let us not deceive the directors of small businesses by telling them that they will save a great deal of time and money if they no longer have any accounts to keep.
The representatives of Memorial mentioned this several times in this House.
We must also prevent the risk of child trafficking.
Mr President, thank you for a very constructive debate.
Our support for ratification this week should make clear three points.
Restrictions on agricultural production, orders, prohibitions, quotas and contingents are leading to a further diminution in food reserves, especially in the newly acceded countries.
Any other choice would deprive Europe of its independence and self-sufficiency.
Is it not the problem now that biofuels have a bad name not because of what Europe has done but because of what the US is doing in feeding large quantities of corn to cars instead of to cows?
One could cite numerous other examples.
These women will be able to ask a judge to apply European law in their case if it conforms more closely to the equality of rights.
Proper migration management is beneficial to the European Union Member States' societies and economies.
The European Union, which has built its phraseology and its institutions on attitudes to human rights, has so far not reacted in any serious way to defend the rights of Christians who are being murdered in India.
We believe that it is not possible to justify this to European taxpayers.
In 2006, half of the loans granted were made without a check on income.
Mr President, the EU budget is being discussed at a time of rising anxiety regarding the economic crisis which is engulfing its Member States.
Some quite radical requirements are being proposed and therefore the burden on industry will be too high if the proposals are introduced too quickly.
This has happened before, and it must not happen again.
On the one hand, this method remains complementary to the acquisition of organs from dead donors but, on the other, it is an alternative with remarkable potential.
The report also places the discards issue in the broader context of the problem of by-catches of seabirds and of sharks and it calls for a significant range of pilot discard projects with a geographical spread.
Of course, generally speaking, as you said, we support everything that moves towards increased economic governance, but we have to see the exact details and make the proposal at the right time.
The problem of the Polish shipyards poses a fundamental question - do we serve the economy or does the economy serve us?
in writing. - Violence against women is a serious concern in the world.
(HU) Just a few things in brief.
Existing treaty provisions contain an obligation to work towards equality between women and men.
(SV) Madam President, we have promised the UN and others that we will reduce emissions by 20-45%.
It is true that requirements already exist for animal health purposes, but today's requirements do not relate to animal welfare.
This is the Spanish Presidency's intention, and we are, of course, counting on the cooperation of the European Parliament, which we have.
The European Parliament's report will secure aid for vine-growers who apply measures to stabilise supply, upgrade quality and protect the environment.
To me, this seems to be proof that our decision to persist with political pressure was the right one.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, I thank the speakers in tonight's sitting for their positive remarks.
The Commission is fully committed to continuing work on the development of Europeana and the policies related to it and that will be a key area of work in the European Digital Agenda.
The majority in the European Parliament and so far achieved in the Committee on Foreign Affairs should not waste time voting on wishy-washy reports and should retain the specific calls for disarmament originally included in the report.
However, as the rapporteur sees it, voting will be concluded when it is known what will be accepted.
Madam President, the agreement on the climate package is a modest result.
A bad policy of multilingualism is based on favouring one or more languages and condemning the rest to marginalisation in all spheres of public activity.
Even if there are shortcomings there, it is we who must beat our breasts, because we basically administer this country.
The review of the single market is an essential part of a reference to the delivery of a Europe of tangible results with the clear focus on the citizens.
It should, however, be admitted that the new Commission did receive the overwhelming majority of the votes.
We will even out these differences, this is our hope and it is an opportunity for us, but let us now speak of a Community and also of our responsibility.
If we are going to pass more laws, we need to concentrate more elsewhere; we cannot always be calling for new positions and posts when we feel like it.
It remains to be seen whether the new people at the head of the EU will prove their worth in this case.
Nevertheless, I have voted against the report, as it contains a number of significant shortcomings.
Each 'European Year' is an excuse for the EU to spend vast sums on its own propaganda, on a theme considered to be of media interest.
Passengers must not be left behind in this, however.
Albeit with a few misgivings, I believe that the committee's proposals are equal to the arduous task of dismantling established monopolies.
Experiencing new cultures and languages and making international contacts leads to the creation of more solid bonds within Europe and helps in creating the European identity.
We have to find solutions to that.
Mr McCreevy has to leave us at 7.20 p.m.
(NL) The international reporting on the disturbances in Moldova at the beginning of April and their consequences raises a considerable number of questions, questions that the European institutions need to put to the Moldovan and Romanian authorities.
Dublin's debt of gratitude to Europe is obvious.
I believe we should place the emphasis on broad public education and regulate the sales price by raising taxes, as scientific studies have shown this to be an effective weapon in the fight against tobacco addiction.
The point is that you did not then go on to the next amendment.
That is why it is important that the human rights community continues to support the Human Rights Council, albeit with a critical eye.
An agreement between employers and trade unions is expected in this respect and, for this reason, the two amendments will be submitted again in Mr. Grosch's report.
A nuclear-powered ship might be rejected for political correctness, which could apply to the Royal Navy's nuclear submarines.
According to a report of the European Commission published in 2008, one in five (19%) Poles lives below the poverty line, with 26% of children living in poverty (the highest level in the Union).
This will not prevent the crisis.
In order for a new agreement to be signed, Russia must fulfil its commitment on Georgia's territorial integrity.
I believe that your programme should be more integrated and more pro-active on the question of young people.
The population growth rate in 2007 reached a tiny 0.12%.
I am convinced that the EU's response must be to intensify cooperation with Georgia and especially with Ukraine, not only with words but also by clear and meaningful actions.
At the moment, all the surveys show that people are still worried about the loss of purchasing power and the fear that the risks of loss of purchasing power will materialise.
This work is progressing primarily through the Commission's assessment under the competition rules of the two major international card schemes, namely MasterCard and Visa.
It is far more important than that, colleagues.
However, we also have many strengths: we have the world's biggest market economy; we have the single market; we have the euro area.
This year, we have agreed to increase its budget by EUR 10 million and to try and ensure that its missions remain permanent.
A facility providing financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments (
If Europe introduces a relevant Eurovignette system, it will also promote the rise of European economic players.
Precisely for this reason, Mr Van Rompuy, I ask you to support the new leading role played by Parliament and to see it not as an obstacle, but as an opportunity.
Globalism is the belief in a single idea that excludes alternative points of view.
If Bosnia and Herzegovina is to become a member of the European Union one day, it is in the interests of both entities and of all three groups to work together to create a united and properly-functioning state.
It also represents the ultimate challenge from a communication point of view.
Sick and neglected animals, most taken far too early from their mothers, are transported to the West in the most deplorable conditions to be sold here for a lot of money.
The dialogue with the United Nations' Special Rapporteur and the assurance that he would be allowed to visit the country constitute a first step.
This is also an excellent form of development cooperation and a way to encourage these countries to move towards a better life and better development.
We overcame the danger but we still have a challenge before us: the challenge of building the Europe that we need and that the world in the 21st century needs.
Until then, the stagnation will persist.
My husband is a doctor and, a few years ago, he was infected by a needle.
Clearly, bulk data is an issue and it is an issue that cannot be skirted round.
We are working on improving the governance of the IASB.
We have also enshrined in our legislation the right to dispose of dangerous goods as well as counterfeit goods.
We must also anticipate that dioxins and heavy metals will be released.
The issue of reporting requirements by the fleet is also being dealt with, since we have proposed a legal basis that will allow the Commission to refuse licence requests on the grounds of poor reporting from Member States.
I would like to commend the rapporteur on her report and support the recommendations contained within.
I am aware of the creation of an association bringing together owners of vessels under 10 metres long in the UK fleet.
One of your priorities is the Europe of immigration, but the Europe of immigration cannot be reduced to a Europe of expulsions.
This close interaction between the industry, the environment, energy and transport makes it one of the EU's most regulated areas - it is covered by around 80 directives and 115 UNECE regulations.
Approval of motor vehicles with regard to the forward field of vision of the driver (vote)
I want to congratulate my colleague, Edit Herczog, as her report is vital in this respect.
The important thing is to have a coherent approach.
Europe does not have to support one coalition over another.
Moreover, it is important to remember that within the EU there are many different soil types, which are used in a variety of ways.
The government must be aware that crushing the protestors may clear the streets for now but will not solve the problem that brought the people onto the streets, and before anything else comes human life, so stop the firing.
Risks and costs must be apparent and comparable from the outset.
If we make too many exceptions, we give operators the opportunity to circumvent the rules.
Nevertheless, I am concerned at the lack of agreement on an overall change in the approach to aligning subsidies for all states of the EU at the same level, which would promote healthy competition within the Community and outside it.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, despite an enterprising charm offensive from the Commissioner and his services, I still cannot support this proposal to extend the copyright term.
When we reiterate our support for territorial integrity, do we realise that the six-point plan is, in fact, not being observed at all?
It is not, nor will it be, the end of the nation state, but nation states are grouping together and they will continue to group together and act together in many areas.
We cannot exclude the possibility that one consequence of the repression will be expressions of unrest from the Tibetans, who will be driven to take extreme measures.
The CAP, like any policy, has its problems, but it has delivered for EU citizens and this regulation will ensure that it continues to deliver in an open and transparent way.
It was a successful conference, for which thanks is due to the Slovenian chairman, Mr Podobnic.
Finally, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission agreed in an interinstitutional agreement on 20 December 1994 that an accelerated procedure could be used.
They know that if they dared let their peoples speak, they too would look like the hapless Brian Cowen.
The Russian Federation is a European neighbour which, having left behind a long period of political totalitarianism and economic centralism, has in the last decade started along the road of democracy, human rights and an economy of private initiative.
Rather, it should have a sufficient margin of flexibility for it not to jeopardise good practice already in force.
I will end by wishing Mr Bowis a speedy recovery.
At the same Council meeting, ministers agreed that employment is an important factor for the avoidance of exclusion.
Often these things are hidden in foods.
Hence the need for an active social policy: a policy to redistribute wealth.
Another particularly important aspect is the issue of monitoring in third countries European investment which has an impact on the European energy market.
I understand, for example, the rapporteur's concern over the impossibility of comparing data between different Member States owing to the different frequency of analyses.
The various statements made in the preamble to the resolution now approved by a majority of Parliament are positive to see.
They provide incentives to replace food crops with fuel crops.
I am quite sure that, if the subject matter was otherwise, I would probably find myself agreeing with a lot of what they say.
We are expecting the Commission to put forward this year a firm proposal for setting up a European fund specifically for developing the transport infrastructure, and the EU's contribution to this will also feature in the 2011 budget.
I consider these particularly generous, and take the view that they must be cut by a third over a three-year period.
Corrections to votes and voting intentions: see Minutes
Within this context, it is impossible to contemplate free, fair and democratic elections.
International humanitarian law - as you said, Commissioner - is flouted and trampled on, and this is totally unacceptable, and it is often for the extremely surprising reason that there is a war on.
Following the 2006 World Summit on the Information Society, we presented to Parliament a communication which clearly stated the Commission's intention to monitor and safeguard the neutrality of the internet.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report.
How can the rule of law, investment, infrastructure and local border traffic be encouraged in the region?
The communication also contains an emphasis on prophylaxis and includes the introduction of 100% population screening for breast, cervical and colorectal cancers.
Most of these areas are already a part of the Natura 2000 network.
The main feature of Communist totalitarianism - the attitude to people as an expendable resource - was not eliminated.
Therefore, my message to you today is that I am very much looking forward to this possibility of working with you on this very important programme for 2009.
Amendment of Directive 2004/49/EC on safety on the Community's railways (vote)
Here, too, we need to focus on the issue of earlier diagnosis.
(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one minute is only enough for a telegram.
Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner as well for his response and advise him that a drop of whisky, some hot water and a slice of lemon is very good for clearing the throat.
It is true that most developing countries have opened up their economies, but they remain trapped in the production of commodities with low added value and plagued by the lack of a skilled workforce.
I welcome Chris Davies's report and thank him for the work he has done.
An agreement should in any event be on the table.
Mr President, I shall speak first about Kosovo.
We have sympathy for the substance of some of the amendments proposed, and some of these will be mirrored in the implementing legislation or in the final text to be adopted by Council following the Presidency's compromise text.
At the same time, local and regional authorities will play a crucial role in promoting this database via the most suitable means possible so that the information is as easily accessible as possible to citizens.
That is why it is right for us in the European Parliament to ask the European Council to act.
Let me remind you that it is the largest-scale mission ever deployed.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament has approved the Community Strategy for reducing CO2 emissions from passenger cars and I welcome this very much.
The safety of the transport can best be achieved by merging the regulations.
I also wanted to say that I voted in favour of this motion, given that enlargement is an important political gesture for the EU.
Parliament's suggestions are in line with an outdated paradigm based on effective management of existing water resources.
This calls into question the judicial protection of individual rights.
There are scientists who doubt these causalities and we should keep that in the back of our minds as we now go to Copenhagen.
We must not allow the perception to be conveyed that the mobile phone sector ruthlessly exploits consumers.
If any new requirements were placed on this instrument, we would have a problem.
As a counterbalance to this, the Hungarian government proposed increasing the quota-based subsidies, but the Commission did not respond positively to this suggestion or to the one from France, specifically from the French ministry, either.
The aid scheme for areas affected by natural handicaps has effectively helped the farming of agricultural land to continue in these regions.
(EL) Mr President, millions of workers have gone on strike and are demonstrating today, with the Hellenic Workers Front, against the barbaric measures imposed by capital, the Greek Government, the European Union and the IMF.
The internal market assumes that any European company can access acquisitions made in any Member State.
The Commission, in its role as guardian of the Treaties, will work untiringly to that effect.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - (DE) Mr President, to celebrate the occasion, as you see, I have consciously taken the place of Mr Zahradil.
Sweden is a medium-sized country in the European Union and we should view that as a positive thing in all respects.
Member States have already had to submit and prepare their renewable energy strategy, taking into account cost-effectiveness and a sectoral analysis of the potential in each country.
I am not very happy with the recasting system.
The long-term consequences of radioactive radiation and genetic technology have not yet been ascertained in sufficient detail, and it is impossible to estimate the effects of cloning, let alone cross-breeds.
A worker could be called on to work up to 78 hours per week.
rapporteur. - Mr President, there are no technical adjustments this time, so we can vote.
The second issue is that notification of irregularities can take up to 39 months - more than three years.
This is an important issue which we have dealt with in Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I also want to use this opportunity to call on the United States not to sign, at present, the treaties on the installation of their anti-missile shield elements in Europe.
Approximately 900 000 seals meet a gruesome death every year in the name of commercial seal hunting.
Go and have a look at the accidents - then you will realise that, as Members of the European Parliament, we cannot allow ourselves to advocate social dumping.
I know it was not easy in Coreper and I know it was not easy in the working groups, but the Presidency did an excellent job and, hopefully, it will be as successful in the final months of its Presidency.
Satisfaction with the statements by Commissioners Špidla and Kroes, which provide a little reassurance, but also fear, as the statements by the acquiring party, Magna, are not really conducive to any real peace of mind.
I deeply regret this, as it means that important consumer information will be lost.
While accelerated fiscal consolidation is an immediate priority throughout Europe, at the same time, we need to coordinate our economic and fiscal policies by applying differentiation among the Member States.
If we also find American unilateralism very unpleasant at times, this unilateralism is also partly rooted in our own weakness.
The Lithuanian education system faces other problems too.
We have seen a number of treaties, such as the Prüm Treaty, that have caused great concern.
This has not happened since the times of King Hassan II.
Delays and inadequate enforcement are common in Member States.
The Global Europe trade strategy is about new trading opportunities, new exports and new jobs.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, clearly this part-session is of major importance.
Therefore, conducting and building the whole argument on a technical basis to avoid having to make the political choice is somewhat lacking in legitimacy.
Ten years ago, when climate change was being debated, the health risks as such were never mentioned.
It is not my habit to do so, and I apologise for not staying for the rest of the debate.
You have also heard what Mr Swoboda had to say.
I believe that it is essential to make criminal proceedings more efficient, while the correct administration of justice must be ensured.
Let us show how a social market economy operates responsibly as a European regulatory framework in the field of climate protection.
I congratulate you on your initiative to hold this conference in Palma de Mallorca in March, as it will follow on from the conference held in Stockholm.
I am convinced that Romanian pig farmers would be extremely happy if these rules were replaced by a system of superficial and selective controls or by a few posters stuck up at airports.
It was this name, 'České pivo', that was published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the middle of January this year, together with a proposal to register it as a protected geographical designation.
One particularly urgent element is maximising the agricultural potential in the new Member States, since the current discriminatory common agricultural policy is resulting in a serious deterioration of agriculture in these new Member States.
We commit ourselves clearly to the social market economy and 'social' is underlined three times.
We will definitely then assess what to do with the attempts to abuse passenger rights and excessive interpretations of passenger rights.
We in Parliament are convinced that this important function must be regulated in agreement with all institutions.
For that reason, we also say clearly from here that we will use our parliamentary capabilities to the full not to prevent something, but to build something constructive.
What about the other countries, of which there are more than 100, where the EU provides support for various activities?
To conclude, I would like to stress that optimism is based on realism and effectiveness is based on setting viable objectives.
I believe that the results of this strategy are positive, as the draft report of the European Parliament demonstrates.
In this respect, as in many other things, it is very important for the response to these challenges to have a European perspective and a European focus.
I support the introduction of a tri-annual review of the directive post its implementation to ensure that it remains responsive and adequate for its purpose.
Let us test this technology and let us pray that it works.
Of course NATO should be and is our first port of call when security is threatened.
Nevertheless, I do not believe that there is any great desire on the part of the people of Europe for the Union to take on the trappings of a super-state.
The UK Government - my own government - for example, has again missed its own deadline of last year for ratifying the Convention, which is an absolute disgrace.
Are you therefore unable to accept Amendments 4 and 7 of the report?
Clearly, my socialist friends are keen to combine these, yet the two things are not the same.
We should be prudent with public money at all times.
In this field of telecommunications, I must say that the situation is at times absolutely unbearable.
The text of the framework decision now covers only cross-border exchanges of personal data, and that is why we wanted to go further.
in writing. - (RO) I am in favour of adopting the European Commission's legislative programme for next year and I believe it reflects the political priorities of the European Union very well.
It was entered by way of a clause on burden-sharing, which focused on distributing the load amongst countries.
Another problem that I see is that in connection with economic difficulties and increasing unemployment, the negative attitude towards migrants will become even more acute.
While in Framework Programme 6 we were not achieving the target, from the first evaluations and first insight into the results, we can see that this figure is closer to 20% than 15%, which is a major step forward.
(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would argue that the Atlantic Alliance is an obsolete defence instrument and that in certain recent cases it has not in fact helped relations, for example, with Russia.
Therefore, admission of the Balkan States to the European Union could, in my opinion, be the EU's most important contribution ever to stabilisation and peace in our continent.
The economic crisis, especially at the beginning, led to the appearance of numerous examples of protectionist practices, which quite often caused doubts from the point of view of EU principles of competition.
This morning, I took the healthy option and walked into Parliament and I was dismayed to see in cars young parents, with children strapped into the back, smoking cigarettes.
Companies which have invested in green vehicles in recent years are in a particularly difficult position.
For the first time, Article 174 of the treaty recognises the specific role of mountain regions, which represent 40% of our territory and over 90 million European citizens.
When we examine their substance, it seems as though the Commission has not yet learned its lesson after all.
Similarly, the obligation on officials to provide testimony 'pursuant to instructions from their administrations' is to be removed, while the official in question is to be required to tell the truth in all honesty.
For my part - and Mr Schulz should have his speaking time cut by 30 seconds - I would like to say some very simple things, between ourselves.
Most of the time, we are proposing new legislation in this House, but today we modified a piece of legislation.
The very nature of the difficulties demands multilateral solutions.
This policy of non-interference, with China's lenient attitudes towards questionable regimes, such as those in Sudan, is a continued issue of concern to be addressed.
However, another reason is surely the fact that we Europeans are not as good as we always claim to be.
The legitimate use of firearms plays an important role across the European Union.
There is therefore the same danger as we see in Tibet and that is that if China does not enter into agreements with the moderates, there are always young radicals who cannot and do not want to wait any longer.
Instead, we will have an official presence in the EU pavilion.
Your words expressed that you and your country represent democracy and freedom; you work against violence, against terror, against dictatorship.
The time frame for this decision must be determined at the spring summit and form part of the summit outcome document.
However, we need more, and urgently.
Do nothing and the whole area could dissolve into a war - a war which no one will win.
The next item is the report by Mr Hegyi, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on Active dialogue with citizens on Europe.
The Greek pension system needs to be reformed to make it more appropriate and more sustainable.
The primacy of Community law is thus established over national legislation and even national constitutional provisions.
Clearly any link of this kind will present problems.
On 20 December, it will have its visa requirement lifted and, a short while ago, we had elections in Greece.
Similarly, I hope - I say so quite openly, I will no longer be rapporteur - but I hope that Europe's institutional framework can itself evolve.
I am pleased that the Committee on Transport and Tourism is creating a compromise whereby discounts on charges may be applicable regardless of the quality or the quantity of services, and also to new routes.
If we wish to achieve these objectives, we must seize the opportunities now.
I would like to ask the Council, can we do anything else - and take further steps - to improve road safety?
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is scarcely believable.
Our thoughts are foremost with them, but I also ask this Chamber not to forget the Iranian who was an employee of the British Embassy.
Since 1999, the European Commission has been attending to the issue of the lack of women in research.
I would like to note that it is not usual for the Council to be represented in such debates.
At the same time, the Commission will be analysing, from the perspective of competition regulations, the arguments presented by the card systems in order to justify their financing system.
We do not agree on some of the matters about which Mr Barroso spoke.
The Member States have an obligation to implement laws on time, if they have committed to do this under an agreement.
I ask our President to make a joint declaration with the Council on our behalf stating that it strongly condemns the persecution of civilian, humanitarian, health and religious personnel in Iraq.
How do we get to a position where, in future, we have better, climate-friendly public transport systems?
On the issues Ms Hall mentioned, a recasting of the Buildings Directive is in this year's work plan.
With regard to the Europol mandate, it would make more sense if all this was established in general terms, instead of legislation always being drawn up on a case by case basis.
(EL) Mr President, the Annapolis Conference on the Middle East ended with mixed results for the European Union.
It is difficult to achieve such goals without this kind of support facility.
This is legislation that is being adopted by debate and through compromises.
It is not just the crisis in the financial markets that leads to this restraint, however.
It is inconceivable to allow information policy to come only via the administration, and it leaves us, who have been elected to this place democratically, outside the information machinery.
On the issue of piracy, of course the Commission is deeply concerned that incidents are on the increase.
On the economic recovery plan, we need to translate political agreement into concrete action.
It is not you who needs to conduct this discussion, Commissioner.
In this context, the Commission will also examine the functioning of the food supply chain in parallel with the monitoring of the retail sector established in the context of the Single Market Review.
The letter sent by Secretary Clinton to President Buzek, raising concerns regarding SWIFT, was woefully late in the day.
So, if I may, let me give one tip to the consumer: 'never a lender or a borrower be', and to governments, let me say: 'a fool and his money are soon parted'!
Vice-President of the European Commission, Margot Wallström, has been proactive in matters to do with equality.
It is now clear that good hunting practice is crucial.
It is also urgently necessary to broaden the range of products.
But there is a wide variety of different subjects involved here and the most important thing, therefore, is effective coordination.
I am convinced that that is not true.
I would like to summarise briefly our proposals in this respect.
However, we know that this issue is absolutely central.
Not one of the resolutions adopted by Parliament provides for the creation of maps identifying the areas at risk of fire which must be taken into account in terms of planning and development.
It is therefore of particular importance how the Commission deals with this concern.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of Mrs. Katerina Batzeli's report for several reasons.
But we need the first generation as a stepping stone for the second generation.
We have had enough, ladies and gentlemen!
However, one cannot fail to notice that the population of Guinea supports the new government.
More specifically, they are imposed by the so-called 'Letter of the Six' countries, which set the Community budget at around 1% of GDP.
There is no turning back, there are no steps backward, we cannot reverse history.
Despite the involvement of experts from the Commission and the Member States, SIS II continues to come up against various obstacles.
On the other hand, we must call for this treaty to also respect certain basic, fundamental principles of coexistence inspired by respect for the rules.
Countries that have previously been opposed to joining the Euro Zone, such as Denmark and Sweden, are now changing their minds and considering joining in a few years.
The presidency will also encourage a more coherent application of the existing rules by the Member States.
Particular attention has been paid - as I have said - to the most vulnerable parties and, here, the text of the regulation needs to be further simplified.
(ES) Madam President, the international community, and not just the United States, has a problem in Afghanistan.
Funding of extraordinary expenditure at a time when an extraordinary situation is announced helps a state to repair the damage brought about by atmospheric conditions or a natural disaster.
They can be replaced by young people who study and who get a foothold on the labour market instead of becoming unemployed.
If they boycott the election, following a disagreement over the replacement of ethnic armies with border guards, it would take away the credibility that these elections need.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote in favour of the report on the fight against undeclared work.
The long-term sustainability of public finances is essential to achieve stability and growth.
This proposal ticks so many boxes.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues are fully supportive of EU and international efforts to promote peace, democracy and prosperity for the people of Afghanistan.
We have fielded all the possible arms: codecision, enhanced comitology, simple comitology.
The European Union has already sent a European security and defence policy mission to Kosovo.
There must be respect for the diversity, traditions and language of migrant employees.
This result shows that all the European Union institutions should now strongly engage in promoting this new instrument, because at the moment, it can be seen that very few people are aware of its existence.
It is capped at 45 hours per week for any two consecutive weeks, not to exceed 56 hours in any single week.
I therefore welcome the new rules to improve the Ecolabel and to make it better known.
This is due to the lack of transparency in its activities and inappropriate information being made public.
More recently, at the end of Ataka's European election campaign, a billboard displayed a banner stating: 'Baleva on the scaffold - the German Jew tied to the stake!'
Ireland's rejection of the Lisbon Treaty has once again put to the test the common will of Europeans to overcome the challenges of globalisation together.
Moreover, the President of the European Council, Mr Van Rompuy, today spoke in favour of a rapid reaction force.
The southern countries in particular would like to see exemptions for the admixture of ethanol, but it is precisely these southern countries that suffer from the problem of harmful ozone.
There were many kinds of players that have some kind of responsibility for the mess, let us state it very clearly, that was created in the financial sector.
These facilities are the island's livelihood and have been legally established for between 30 and 40 years.
In the countries of the former Communist camp, the principle of non-intervention was supreme.
(PL) The review conference of the International Criminal Court will be an important opportunity to commit Member States of the Union to values which, to us, are crucial.
The EU has a series of financial instruments in the area of external relations and the EIB's activity must be complementary to them.
The European Union has proposed to raise the employment rate to 70% by 2020 through the Lisbon Strategy.
Has no country in Europe given consideration to this yet?
We also regret that the Commission document does not contain any specific proposals for the implementation of the Millennium Development Goals prior to 2015.
The FIDES party, a member of the grouping of European people's parties, has refused to toughen up laws intended to combat nationalism and radicalism more effectively.
More importantly, this package will strengthen consumer protection and food safety.
Tonight we are discussing a free trade agreement in the Euromed.
I agree with the tabled amendment to the present proposal suggesting that Member States that have already renounced at least 20% of their quota should not have to implement further quota reductions.
When we start on the 2008 discharge - and we are doing that even now - we will not be starting from a blank sheet.
For this reason, as it is an objective for Europe, a problem with a European dimension, in order to combat this phenomenon, we also need a European strategy.
in writing. - (EL) The Community Strategy 2007-2012 on Health and Safety at Work does not deal with the actual causes of accidents and conceals the irresponsibility of capital.
We must guard against this, and I therefore urge you to support Amendment 254.
However, as I said before, it does not change the fact that the only relevant text is the one prepared by a competent service of the general secretariat of the Council as an official consolidated text.
The UKIP will not contribute to this imposture.
This is a major step towards creating a real European system and European airlines network.
The European Union has also inspired the courses of action that the G20 has taken forward to tackle the economic crisis.
However, an anniversary is also a time for looking to the future.
National legislation must be adapted to it.
I hope that in the interests of good cooperation in the scientific and technical field, such events will not be repeated in future.
Parliament hopes that the Copenhagen Summit will be an opportunity to present a European Union that is strong and that also makes a firm financial commitment to developing countries, because we owe them.
I should like to say a couple of words about the Treaty that has been referred to by the rapporteurs.
Relief operations are not flowing as speedily as one would wish, although one sees that this is getting better by the hour.
Corrections to votes and voting intentions: see Minutes
Like other European socialists, I am convinced that reconciling work and family life is essential for the people of Europe to flourish.
The fight against cancer must be among the priorities of each successive presidency, if only because the incidence of this terrible disease in Europe is rising and will continue to rise as our society ages.
We need delivery based on our ideas, innovation and actions.
The Brenner Base Tunnel is part of the high-speed rail axis from Berlin to Palermo and the trans-European transport network programme and it is intended to cross under the Innsbruck to Bozen axis.
For these reasons I voted against the legislative resolution.
There has also been the matter of interchange fees, which deserves to be tackled.
The recognition of the European Commission and of you, the European Parliament, for the work of human rights defenders in Sudan gives us the courage and determination to continue to speak for the victims, and relieve some of their suffering.
However, the Commission also believes that the basic rules of fleet management - that is, an entry and exit regime guaranteeing no increases in capacity and the withdrawal of public subsidy to such capacity increases - must be safeguarded.
We are really asking the authorities for an immediate ceasefire so that civilians can be removed from danger, because we know that there are people who have been killed.
I am told: we must act, we must take action towards more sustainable transport, transport that is more environmentally friendly, we must support the railways, we must support river transport, and we must support maritime transport.
On the one hand, it would focus on transparency and respect for civil and political rights, as well as for privacy.
The banks are currently making provision for risks because they know that some of the risks on their books have not yet been disclosed.
While we are trying to sort out the children's problems, we need to beware of demonising parents who are moving.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, with all due respect to your position and to you personally, Commissioner, I should like, if I may, to say two things in response to your speech.
(ES) President Chávez, Judge Afiuni must be freed immediately.
Yet during the Bush-Gore debates just over a decade ago, George Bush said that had he been President he would not have intervened in Kosovo.
In the past, the left was justifiably criticised for wanting to divide society into corporations and corporate representation.
We do not want 1 January for its own sake.
We need only look at the potential for increasing the generation efficiency of coal-fired power stations, which averages 34% at the present time but could be raised to 55% through the use of state-of-the-art technology.
For the above reasons, I voted in favour of the report 'Action Against Cancer: European Partnership'.
That is why their economic situation is exceptionally important.
Over time, however, it has emerged that - as you quite rightly said, Commissioner - that the currently available instrument makes it extremely difficult, if not downright impossible, to respond appropriately to large-scale crises at EU level.
I hope we will not be replicating that situation with the US poultry issue.
Today, we voted on the motion for a resolution drafted by my Slovenian colleague Mr Peterle, of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on the fight against cancer.
Overall, our conclusions about the success of the Czech Presidency are somewhat mixed.
The honourable Members will see that strong political commitment is being shown by the EU's institutions, and particularly by the Commission, to fundamental rights and freedom of information, of expression and of the media.
I do not know how much you can tell us of what is included in the negotiations, but does common sense not tell us that there should, at this point, be provision for operation and actions by Frontex?
I would add that the objective for 2020 is 80 grams per kilometre.
Next year Europe will be united as it has never been before.
That is why I would like to ask for support for the European Charter here in Parliament as well.
The youngest were 11, 12, 13, and the oldest were 20 or 25 at most.
demilitarisation of international relations and a gradual reduction in armaments and military expenditure;
Profits can be increased in the short term by the management raising the risk level in the companies by means of lower equity.
The time has come to sow the seeds of lasting reconciliation between Palestinians too.
With regard to cohesion, the committee states that it notes with great concern the ECA's estimate that at least 11% of the total amount reimbursed in connection with structural policy projects should not have been reimbursed.
The cohesion policy has given Europe a face that shows its interconnectedness and solidarity.
Questions which have not been answered for lack of time will be answered in writing (see Annex).
In fact President Hugo Chávez calls Mahmoud Ahmadinejad a friend - and with friends like these, who needs enemies, one might wonder.
Mr President, what we are talking about here are 'diversified gas transport routes', and I would also add 'and resources', because:
Their importance to further social development is advocated by us politicians, economists, scientists and power engineers, and also by home-owners who are not normally involved professionally in the fields of power generation or environmental protection.
If we are to talk in terms of feasibility - the ability to react to the current financial crisis attests to this -, if we have the political will, we have the material resources.
We do not believe that the budget as a whole is good enough yet to rise to these major challenges.
If a company is to operate there, it must surrender most of its decision-making and operations procedures to the Government.
Issues like immigration, climate change and energy will take centre stage.
In the private sector this is more prevalent and the rate rises to 25%.
We need a European energy policy to guarantee us security of supply and sustainable growth in this sector.
The level of trade takes its share, and so when, for example, rye bread comes onto the market, it costs EUR 3, of which the primary producer, the farmer, gets just six cents.
Indeed, this text provides, inter alia, for the establishment of a working week that cannot, in any circumstances, exceed 48 hours throughout the European Union.
We are not only facing the economic crisis - and here the Swedes have shown their cleverness by largely avoiding it - but we also have to deal with a rather ominous swing to the right.
You will remember that, when I spoke in this House on 26 March, I called for a restart of talks between the representatives of the Dalai Lama and the Chinese Government.
Lord Mandelson is still getting GBP 78 000 a year from the European Commission and, of course, gets a dependent pension on this in just a few years' time - a conflict of interest if ever I saw one.
The implementation of the vital measures to combat climate change is hugely delayed.
Such a resolution is even more serious when we are experiencing a time of acute crisis for capitalism, which is making the struggle for peace, democracy and social progress the great requirement of our time.
I imagine that that might very well be the case, but independent testing is crucial here, too.
I notice that you have talked about revisiting the idea of raising our own target to a 30% reduction.
Ladies and gentlemen, listening to today's debate, one might have the impression that the main problem currently facing European countries is whether to increase the use of body scanners at airports or to limit possibilities for their introduction.
That brings us to my next point.
I compliment the Commission on its undertaking to prevent disorder by facilitating dialogue with Member States, international organisations, sports bodies and police forces.
Equality of competition conditions also requires that social security services are harmonised.
Mr Baldassarre mentioned a worry that Mr Lehne also has concerning the powers of the authorities.
I also believe that one of the most dramatic of these consequences is a loss of balance - a loss of a sense of balance in reacting to the threat of terrorism.
The world needs governance that is based on universal values.
Other population groups have always been kept in opposition, where necessary on the strength of rigged election results.
Pursuant to Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure, a candidate who obtains an absolute majority of votes cast shall be elected, which means that only votes in favour are taken into consideration.
I would rather we looked at each specific circumstance to see where we need it.
(HU) Thank you for this opportunity to speak.
We cannot continue to put the people who have to contend with particular needs at a disadvantage by allowing these difficulties to continue.
In summary, the present situation of the maritime transport market in the EU is not a bad one, but the prospects do not make us feel optimistic.
As is always the case, however, those measures, that reaction and the instruments referred to are taking shape gradually, just as our awareness of the importance and gravity of this problem is taking shape gradually.
Fifteen years of shameless lobbying by various industry circles to undermine the European labelling system, that is what is going on here.
If we act individually we are lost, and events have proved that.
in writing. - (RO) Only one year after its establishment, in 2006, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is already requested.
It is out of the secretarial allowance that MEPs' assistants are paid.
We will be working hard on that.
For this reason, we must not jump to conclusions about the accident and, more significantly, we must not begin assigning blame.
There appears to be renewed progress, and hopes have risen for agreement later this year.
Madam President, my thanks to the Members who have taken part in the debate and to the Commissioner.
'We should end the practice of viewing words as crimes'.
If the British people want to preserve their liberties, then they have to leave the European Union.
The media, in many cases, present the truth not as it really is, but as certain media barons wish the public to perceive it as being.
Coordinated action is needed, and at a European level.
(FR) Mr President, we are all infuriated at the level of food prices and the way they are structured.
At a time when we are experiencing economic collapse, we should not allow ourselves to make the mistake of neglecting research and development or the people who work in these areas.
As I said, we will start working immediately based on that and I am looking forward to good cooperation and discussions with you in working on this.
In short, the results relating to last year's projects are not yet available.
Climate protection is on the agenda, but we are not seeing a move away from coal-powered generation of electricity or from nuclear power.
Extending Europe's ambitions to the entire planet would result in global warming of 4 degrees. That is totally unacceptable.
in writing. - Volunteering in the EU requires greater recognition.
There have been no changes or reforms.
We also propose to elaborate a precise roadmap indicating short-, medium- and long-term objectives with a specific timeframe for implementing them and obviously subject to the European Parliament's scrutiny.
Mobile phone and broadband Internet providers are very interested in those frequencies.
As someone from the continental mainland, I also observed that these farmers in the outermost regions of the Union do face a special set of circumstances.
To conclude, the best proof for their credibility would be to release Gilad Shalit unconditionally and to abstain from further kidnappings.
There must be a degree of consistency for all of our citizens who work, relax, learn, etc. in this urban and suburban perimeter.
Therefore, I think that this would be a dangerous precedent.
The price of pigs has continued to decrease for over a year and for several months now, has been clearly below the production cost.
This number includes 75 million people who live in areas bordering the Danube.
Future of the European Common Asylum System (debate)
We are working on a European project, on keeping jobs and on taking the lead, so perhaps that could come through a little clearer in the communication.
We would like to promote an increased legal certainty, which is why we started the process.
The major challenges presented by globalisation, the economic and financial crisis and global warming will cause Europeans to work even more closely together to provide an effective defence for our shared values and our interests in the world.
We are ready to join you in other constructive dialogues like that of today and we will lend an attentive ear to the problems of the day.
However, are these actions enough to create the necessary grassroots public support for the immediate and successful implementation of the necessary reforms?
I want to conclude by saying that this year was declared the European Year of Creativity and Innovation and the motto is: imagine, create, innovate.
Parliament has broadly approved the Commission's proposals, with a few recommendations intended to make the system more interoperable.
This relates not only to the scope of the substantive obligations of Member States, but also to the manner in which a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights against an EU Member State is executed.
Tomorrow there will be the appeal hearing of the Gafsa workers, who are fighting against corruption and against their exploitation in this Tunisian coal mining area, with a denial of justice that we saw during the first hearing.
It actually functioned very well until the United States departed from the terms of the agreement by calling upon the WTO Dispute Settlement Body in 2004.
Commissioner, you ask us to help reach a consensus.
Furthermore, in political terms, we must urgently continue the unremitting pursuit of dialogue on security policy, in order to develop ever stronger relations between the countries in question.
Evading justice is common and a person legally sentenced in one European Union country should not be allowed to stroll peacefully down the streets of other Member States.
This principle of solidarity must constitute the guarantee of the European social model.
in writing. - (PT) Since 1997, when the Ottawa Convention was signed, on the basis of data available last November, 156 States have signed the Convention.
Progress has been secured in particular areas. I want to mention some of them.
Burma, or Myanmar, also continues to be a priority topic in the Council's debates because of the political situation in that country.
However, it is important for passengers' rights in Europe that transport and travel opportunities are available to them.
Not only that, but the Union bears responsibilities towards the third countries that supply our raw materials for energy production.
A quarter of Romanian children have health issues.
The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Burma .
Under these guidelines, the European Union implements a wide range of actions, ranging from public declarations or diplomatic démarches to trial observations.
And, given the increase in the European Parliament's powers envisaged in the Treaty of Lisbon, it is understandable that its Members should consider the institutional and procedural implications of the Treaty, hence tonight's debate on the five reports.
Madam President, Commissioner, we also have to think of our own failings, of course.
For these reasons I abstained in the vote.
Since the aviation sector is able to pass on costs to the consumer, it makes sense that allowances should be allocated via auctioning, even in the present fuel price climate, which makes any talk of passing on costs especially sensitive.
It is to be hoped that this will be rectified through the amendment process.
However, we will not only have to support developing countries in this spirit, but we will also have to be courageous with regard to our own industries and our own economic operators.
The EU's involvement should therefore be reconsidered without delay.
It is a question of giving consumers clear information.
I voted for this report, which tackles the problems facing farmers in many EU Member States.
In my opinion, we have a very good starting point in 2009.
(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a child died in the Shifa hospital in Gaza, and 80 are dead in the Gaza hospital because they were unable to go to Israel for treatment.
You have an important legislative role here, in representing citizens, but also in the debate that is held here.
There was an accession conference on 25 July this year and the first, rather sensitive chapter on the movement of goods was opened and Chapter 20, on enterprise and industrial policy, was closed.
The commitment made by some vaccine manufacturers and, more recently, by some countries to earmark 10% of their production or orders for donations or sale at a reduced price to developing countries is an encouraging sign of global solidarity.
The budget for financing Frontex operations in 2009 has been increased to EUR 36 million, and we are currently looking into how Frontex can organise the repatriation of illegal migrants.
We will succeed if we maintain a constructive partnership between our institutions.
We cannot allow railway lines and motorways to be built on the pain and suffering of persecuted people.
The Union for the Mediterranean (UfM) and Eastern Partnership are two cooperation initiatives intended to consolidate the European Union's neighbourhood policy.
On the other hand, a sensitive debate in the region refers to the problem of respect for human rights.
As you know, most of these issues fall within the scope of Member States.
I voted for this resolution, because I agree that the use of food additives must be moderate - it is only justifiable when it gives consumers an added benefit.
It is, nevertheless, important that all parties continue to work for peace, yet therein may lie the main problem.
What really annoys me the most is that, where data protection is concerned, Europol has, in fact, been given an extension of its powers: on what legal basis, we ask?
Greece - rather, Mr Papandreou - is not being given the time to achieve a consensus in Greece.
The Transatlantic Economic Council has done good work so far.
The proposals, which should be adopted by next summer, will be based on long-term dialogue with the European Parliament, on experience from the 2007 European Year of Equal Opportunities for All and on extensive public consultation.
There is danger that sheep farming's vital role in preserving sensitive environmental and ecological areas will be eroded through land abandonment and that husbandry skills would be lost, and this must be addressed and supported in the CAP health check.
We have not seen his position on modified products.
In today's Europe such attitudes are unacceptable and dangerous.
This means no country, and there are six such countries - I have spoken about this with all six ministers.
This Parliament, the European Parliament, united in its recommendation to both the Council and the Commission on the European Union's role in Iraq.
They must also ensure adherence at home to the principle of respect for human rights and the rule of law which President Medvedev himself proclaimed at the start of his term of office.
This is not linked to any negotiations.
I am confident that this new, simpler and more effective control regime will ensure a level playing field between Community fishermen by strengthening respect for the common fisheries policy rules and by spreading a culture of compliance.
While the Stability and Growth Pact rules are well-intentioned in setting down maximum borrowing guidelines for Member States, they did not foresee - and nobody could have foreseen - the current global economic crisis.
And as others have said, the signing of the Charter of Fundamental Rights here today was an extremely important symbol particularly attached to this debate.
We are after all the world's largest economy.
They told you that they did not want this.
Our problem is that we totally lack the political courage to effect the sea change that was discussed in March in our energy and resource policies.
However, the Commission Communication on an EU strategy to support Member States in reducing alcohol related harm is a very important initiative.
So EU measures need both to be consistent with the ECHR and not conflict with or undermine it and, at the same time, to add value in the sense of strengthening practical implementation.
The almost 500 million citizens of the EU currently constitute less than 8% of the world's population, and in 40 years' time this proportion will be barely at the election threshold - 5%.
Nor was it always easy to negotiate with the Council.
The EU must therefore be an area of solidarity.
In a direct heating process the combustion gases are in direct contact with the feed material to be dried.
Since the turn of the century, our external action in favour of the North has been successfully guided by our Northern Dimension policy.
I hope the process of lasting peace through a two state solution will be supported by the Goldstone findings.
It is true that Mr Tajani's hearing will give us the opportunity to acquire additional information and to define our position.
This is why we have also stressed that we need to tread warily, that carbon capture can reduce generation efficiency and that it is therefore difficult to estimate when CCS technology could come on stream.
Our citizens will be able to check and find out for what purposes we are handing out EU money.
We have a foreign policy team that you would be hard pressed to find anywhere else, with regard to both foreign policy and development policy.
We shall certainly be doing this ourselves, but this is also an appeal to the Council and particularly to the Commission: not only Commissioner Frattini, but also his colleagues.
Mr President, I should also like to point out the important part you have played in promoting the EU's policy on climate change.
The strategy of the European Commission for East Timor under the 10th European Development Fund has recently been approved.
Can we have some people actually at airports looking at what the airlines do?
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I think this SET Plan is basically an empty box because there is no money behind it.
As has been said, this is all wonderful.
The European Neighbourhood Policy action plans cover a wide range of issues in this regard.
(ES) Madam President, I too want to congratulate Mrs Zdravkova on her excellent report.
Recently in January in Berlin, I drove a large S-type Mercedes: a car of around two tonnes.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, what a courageous speech, and what a brilliant description of the necessities of our times.
We must, in my opinion, remain very cautious.
Mr President, I should like to say to the President-in-Office that his country is symbolised for me by two men: Franz Kafka and Jan Palach.
Many EU countries have taken action to facilitate structural relations between the public and private sector with a view to promoting knowledge transfers between universities and industry.
in writing. - (DE) The Thematic Strategy on the Sustainable Use of Pesticides is an important addition to the proposal for a regulation and a directive which has been voted on at first reading today.
However, the resolution as it stands includes some unhelpful elements and the ECR Group therefore abstained.
I also think it is important to recognise informal learning acquired by workers, in order to enable them to change jobs more easily.
The Presidency will continue to do its utmost to reach an agreement with Parliament that will enable the directive to be adopted as soon as possible, preferably at first reading.
The main aim of the exercise will be to ensure we comply with the European model and with fundamental rights.
Mr President, there has been a third issue during this Presidency, which has proven to be extremely difficult: that of the future of the energy and climate package.
I shall therefore confine myself to a few key issues.
Parliament is planning on less than EUR 10 billion additional funds for next year's programmes, all of which serve the real economy, and that is still 1.5 billion below the amount we provided for in the seven year framework budget.
We are talking about hundreds of thousands of people who require our help.
In order to prevent evasion of the provisions of the Waste Shipments Regulation, guidelines must be introduced that make it possible to distinguish between when a ship is truly a ship and when it is waste.
Finally, I think that the common European fisheries policy has proved to be a failure and must be reformed.
(GA) I hope that this resolution will be passed unanimously, and I applaud each person involved for the part they played in the peace process in my own country.
If you care to check in all the other Member States, you will find a similar situation.
Fruit and vegetables are certainly a very important in a healthy diet. It is very important to take this on board.
The game of speculation has no limits, it has no borders and the lack of a European legislative framework causes major ructions in the European Union and every country.
However, in view of the improvements that it brings, I believe it is wiser for me to abstain.
I support any global strategy striving to bring about the worldwide eradication of violence against women.
We are therefore going to answer this question in detail together.
I do not understand and am far from being able to agree with the position taken by Mr Zīle, who spoke of special, or specific, treatment for small states.
For that, however, we need a common European position.
There is also an increase in the number of countries joining the common currency.
We would be undermining the institution that we represent and we would be widening, rather than closing, the distance between us and our citizens.
Without this effort to ensure rigour in the use and compilation of data, the promises of rigour will not be kept.
It is regrettable that we are in the situation we are in.
Depending on how our work goes, we will see whether we are more or less productive.
Cuba is a murky and painful example of how lives of normal people have been mutilated and spoiled for decades.
Your comments at the beginning of the debate made it clear that you wish to set to work ambitiously, but also that you wish to perform your role as intended in the Treaty of Lisbon.
Individual Member States have responded very well.
Now the financial aid has been extended until the end of 2013 and a total of EUR 300 million will be made available.
Up to now, we have not given adequate attention to this, and this situation needs to change.
This directive should be adopted and implemented quickly.
As far as you are concerned, the Spanish Presidency and the Commission have violated the Treaty of Lisbon because the European Parliament has been left out.
There is a third taboo, which unfortunately has not been broken, and it is the Stability and Growth Pact, which some Members of this House are dogmatically demanding be strengthened.
The answer is that given by Yasser Arafat, in May 1989, when he declared his freedom-destroying and deadly charter null and void.
In particular, I believe it is essential to allocate funds to implementing the European Economic Recovery Plan, particularly with regard to adopting measures to stimulate economic growth, competitiveness, cohesion and job protection.
We hope that they will make this public by supporting the clause which is the most favourable to women in Europe at the end of this month in Paris.
Here we have a good opportunity to demonstrate this in practice.
Priority must always be given to safeguarding the environment.
The old idea that markets were efficient and could regulate themselves is over, you said.
I think this is the key to ensuring that good agreements do indeed continue to be reached in the future.
I rather hope that the Commission will simplify the procedures for the Structural Funds, which must not be done at the expense of controlling the distribution and spending of the funds.
The negotiated compromise, however, is also damage limitation, because the planned period of grace should now be understood as nothing more than an invitation to do nothing.
Through the Lisbon Strategy we are seeking to ensure that Europe remains economically competitive with the rest of the world.
Furthermore, I believe that a common asylum system will weaken the accountability of British ministers and parliamentarians to the citizens who elect them.
A typhoon is caused in sea areas with a surface temperature of 27 οC.
Every single citizen in the monetary union could have been EUR 38 000 better off with a different policy if the growth rate in Europe had only matched that in the United States before the latest crisis.
Key to this is the 'European semester'.
I think that we can proceed now, in the light of the Treaty of Lisbon, and that it is very important that we do so.
The fact that completely different provisions can be made - including tailored to particular national circumstances -is a clever solution.
Only at these levels can the very wide range of soil characteristics be dealt with comprehensively.
Plus, of course, the proposed new treaty can make this faster.
I visited the area during the conflict and saw the problems and fears facing both sides.
I can assure you, as I did during debates within Commission bodies on the reopening of these negotiations, that I will check very carefully that these negotiations continue in the interest of European agriculture.
It has already been said here that this problem affects millions of people and their families, who are all suffering.
Mr President, first of all my thanks go to our rapporteur.
I spoke for about 15-20 minutes on the most important points.
It is unacceptable for me to go immediately after a debate, after the previous agenda item, and ask very politely to be given a chance to speak, only to be ignored.
I think we should also look at the title.
I remain uneasy about the non-binding nature of the EU Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators.
On the other hand, the proposal to release self-employed people, and in particular assisting spouses, from the obligation to be members of social insurance schemes is disturbing.
Control of the budgetary implementation of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (short presentation)
I believe that this issue should be on the agenda for public debate in the European Union.
I hope that the EU's Swedish Presidency will mark the start of an age of prosperity, guaranteeing a period of economic growth for the next 40-50 years.
Secondly, with regard to the energy dossier, I believe that joint action is required to coordinate research efforts and identify new clean energy sources.
We have little time, Mr President, so we try to say everything in one minute.
All that has required a response and action, and that is the most difficult thing for any leadership.
You would laugh, if their description of the situation in Guantánamo were not so sad: it is described as a five-star hotel and as a place with all the comforts you could need.
The level of objectivity of information provided by statutory media is often significantly determined by the interests of those holding political power, regardless of the statutes and the legislative framework laid down for such media.
We only need to look closely at the last case: even on the final day, there were still announcements stating that everything was alright and many people believed that.
The reality, in any case - and you know this better than I do - is that the US Government is currently negotiating with the South Koreans about making adaptations to a similar agreement that they have.
Already next week - this week, rather - we will be having a tripartite meeting and next week, the first conciliation meeting to prepare for first reading in the Council.
A mature European society must learn to see full-time care for children and other dependents as a fully valued alternative to professional life.
Now you have to seriously consider withdrawing your comments here this morning in relation to Lisbon.
I think this has to be dealt with in the resolution, which we look forward to; the results will be in the legislative and work programme in the autumn.
The right answer should be directed towards treatment of the causes and not of the symptoms.
What we can offer to Europe is the question, of course.
This unilateral proclamation of independence is an unprecedented breach of international law.
This depends on the results of the calls for proposals which the Commission is presently launching, both centrally and via our representations.
But we still have to work politically with our international partners, in particular through the WTO, in order to ensure that a level playing field is maintained as far as possible.
On the other hand, I resolutely voted for the legislative resolution, and I am really pleased that Parliament has accepted the commendable decision by European citizens regarding this trading ban on seal products.
Financial support is essential, but so is intellectual support, to establish suitable social programmes for the countries which are feeling the effects of the crisis the most.
I welcome the announcement by the National Railway Company of Belgium (SNCB) that it will be using this system and making advance payments.
I ask myself whether, at a time when we have to account for every single euro, we should really be investing money in fields where there are market players making billions in profits.
(HU) The European Union's trade deficit has increased alarmingly three and a half fold in the last five years.
Welcome to all of you, esteemed former Presidents of the European Parliament.
We had four texts when we set out and we have ended up with three.
In addition, prisoners in Rangoon were fired on when the cyclone hit the prison.
In the main, this report clearly aims at this.
I hope that this directive will merely be the first of two steps to achieving this.
I believe it could do much to boost Europe's economy if we get things right.
However, the distortion of free and fair trade is precisely what the EU's subsidy schemes are doing today.'
We maintained all good text, especially on financial independence and on access to free education (PPE separate votes).
So this global aspect is very important to take on board.
This should really be a political programme for the Commission and the Council, now and in the future, as the authority with which we talk about fundamental rights outside Europe depends on our own respect for these rights.
Last week's summit has also strengthened my determination to pursue relations with Russia based on mutual interests.
(SV) I note that the Council is not here to comment on this agreement.
We call to strike a balance in these mentioned issues so as not to hinder the business and leave it sustainable.
Thousands of small French producers are under threat of bankruptcy.
This is a health issue and consequently an Irish one.
My third point is that it is right that the Western Balkans are an absolutely crucial factor in the European security and foreign policy of the future.
I want to challenge them outright to do so.
The European Commission has established special objectives, which make it possible for the European Union to play a leading role worldwide.
I would also like to underline the specific values of the Baltic Sea Strategy.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has managed to steer discussions during the negotiations with great skill, and we are very grateful to him.
It must be said that this is the largest and most ambitious programme ever submitted in relation to this issue, and I must congratulate you here.
We must seek dialogue with the people of Europe far more intensely, inform them and tell them just how important the reform is for the development of Europe.
I support the change to the legal basis proposed by the Commission so that the regulation can be based on Article 194 of the Treaty of Lisbon.
(DE) Mr President, Commissioners, I would like to congratulate Mr Cadec on his successful and balanced report.
It is crazy that they are forced to put out waste every two weeks.
The ruling states that neither the Spanish Constitution nor the Criminal Code allows a newspaper to be closed down, and that the whole charge was built on the premise that defending Basque culture means collaborating with ETA, which is absurd.
It is my belief that if we can move beyond national cultures on the railways, then we shall be able to ensure that the railways have a future.
(DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have often discussed here whether the Olympic Games in Beijing will improve or worsen the general human-rights situation in China.
Unfortunately, the summer of 2009 was marked by devastating forest fires in southern Europe, which caused huge material and ecological damage.
That is why we should have re-designed the treaty: to have it specifically laid down that such a state of affairs cannot be right.
In order to have coordination, we need to deepen and broaden supervision, and the activities of analysis, debate and recommendation based on that analysis and debate, with regard to fiscal policy and other macro-economic and structural policies.
It is important to place the health of the public above the interests of the wine industry.
However, a second matter also concerns me.
Next year, things will be very different: for the first time, Parliament will be able to get its teeth into agricultural policy and fisheries expenditure, for example.
Technical and economic developments alone make this an absolute necessity.
What Google has done, taking on intellectual property and reproducing it for private usage, was clearly illegal at the outset, according to the conclusions drawn by the US Department of Justice itself.
By amending the Schengen Borders Code, these common rules will be established.
How can society value and protect women as unique and exceptional beings, as the bearers of life, when we consider International Women's Day to be a socialist hangover?
(DE) Mr President, there are basically two models for the future of our united Europe: the model of a coherent, ever more closely integrated united Europe, which is the model envisaged by the Treaty of Lisbon, or the pick-and-mix model.
My country is doing its level best.
While some progress has been made, the differences among the Member States unfortunately still exist with regard to the recognition of the status of refugees.
As you know, the issue of gambling has always been extremely controversial in the European Parliament.
Dysfunctional state institutions and the worsening economy have caused civil disquiet and protests.
An important issue discussed in this connection has been the problem of other national marks existing in the EU market.
I also feel that, following the proclamation of the Charter and the signing of the Lisbon Treaty, the Agency should become the most effective European instrument in this field.
What are the criteria and mechanisms for allocating these resources?
I urge the Egyptian Government to refrain from introducing emergency laws limiting fundamental freedoms in light of the sectarian tensions present.
We have also enhanced the balance between home and host regulators.
I see a country that is even open to the criticism the victims of the disaster had of the aid effort, a picture that we are also very familiar with whenever something similar happens here.
It is in Copenhagen that the decision should be taken, and that decision should include everything that is important for the climate.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Madam President, I would like to thank the Commission very much for this proposal.
As we know, equal rights for women and men are a major aspect of social development enshrined in our European civilisation in basic regulations on respect for human rights and all people.
I should like to thank above all the rapporteur, Mrs Garcia Pérez, for the support that she expressed for the steps taken by the European Commission in this field.
The establishment of a common asylum system has been an objective of the European Union for many years and the Commission and myself remain very committed to this objective.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what does freedom of religion actually mean?
Mr President, yet again, this Parliament is being presented with substandard accounts and being asked to discharge them.
It disregards the EU's inertia and refusal to take the necessary decisions;
I sincerely believe that the proposals adopted in our parliamentary committee improve the Council's original document, which otherwise makes a great deal of changes.
Secondly, in my conversations and meetings with the new professor and President of University College Cork, I have learned that they are really getting engaged with the business community and vice versa.
This is therefore a question of protecting the health and safety of these workers as well as ensuring road safety.
The incidence of atypical employment contracts is increasing significantly in the European Union.
It always strikes me, when I arrive in the United States or Australia for example, that the border controls there are much stricter than in Europe.
The British Government has been resisting this measure for a long time but has finally found itself unable to resist it.
In the Commission's opinion, this should not happen.
At the time, Mr Sarkozy turned a deaf ear to colleagues he has himself today credited with the experience of decades spent behind the Iron Curtain.
(FR) Mr President, this is indeed a historic day for our Parliament.
When can we expect the long-awaited disability directive that will put real legislative weight behind equality for people with disabilities?
If this does not happen, we are facing wipe-out in much of our intensive sector.
The aim of this was also to facilitate the negotiations.
For behind all terrorists is an organisation which trained them, supplied them with explosives and financed them.
The existing legislation has brought a number of problems, which we have analysed.
We are also active partners with the US in the fight against the terrorist threat, but always in accordance with our human rights obligations.
We expect, somewhat related to this, a decision to be taken that from 19 December, there will be visa-free access to our Union for the citizens of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia.
In Denmark, we are very proud of the fact that we have a huge amount of clean groundwater that we can drink completely untreated.
That is why we are so tough on governance in parliamentary resolutions.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would very much like to thank Ms Hall for a very timely and important report.
However, now you have the opportunity to look to the future.
Decisions made under pressure from an industrial or political lobby should not be allowed.
We value the support and close working relationship of Commission officials at all levels with Northern Ireland.
First of all, however, there are several countries in the EU where concentration in the media is a problem, and it is therefore unacceptable to mention only one country.
The work should be targeted at the few specific areas where the fundamentals of sustainable growth should be addressed.
The financial perspective does not permit great leaps; the structure of the European budget is much too rigid and inflexible for this as things stand.
Unfortunately, the limits to this report are also numerous.
The Paliadeli report offers a clear, exhaustive overview of the Ombudsman's activities for the past year, and the new presentation for statistics and new layout makes this report accessible and easy to read.
The new directive should be a stimulus to the development of new ways of creating jobs.
Under pressure from pressure groups, an amendment has been tabled which is an amendment to a text that is not the original text.
It is possible that resources from the existing Progress programme will be used, a programme that was launched in 2007 and comprises actions concerning poverty reduction, anti-discrimination, social inclusion, gender and employment.
I did not think this would happen now, and do not suppose it will happen.
We do, of course, hope - and this is something we can all agree on - that Mr Solana will come before us a few more times before the end of this parliamentary term.
The use of joint flights for removals does not entail the violation of the principle of non-refoulement or the circumvention of the requirement for cases to be examined on an individual basis.
Finally, in response to the comment by Mr Clark, who suggests we should have 'trade not aid', I would say that in the EU we manage both - trade via the single market and targeted aid where needed.
In my opinion, this directive should be viewed in the light of the important work on a general maternity directive being carried out by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
We need to identify the sectors or projects where the Union can make a difference and bring added value in relation to the other donors.
The result: a general deterioration in the service, and a deterioration in safety leading to fatal accidents.
We made a major breakthrough this July.
She needs our words more than ever to lift her up.
I would also like to point out that the Ombudsmen at national, regional and local level play a key role, and their activities should be developed.
I submit that instead of dreaming about an unattainable European superstate, we should launch a debate on the rights of the nations.
Only a well-informed consumer is able to detect misleading advertising and avoid the disappointment it may cause.
I also think that better cooperation is needed between research centres and the economy, including small and medium-sized enterprises.
The motion for a resolution also refers to the very critical human rights situation in Uzbekistan.
On the other hand, some progress was made before the election with the freeing of political prisoners and also in connection with the election, where Belarus cooperated with the OSCE/ODIHR and its observers ahead of the elections.
We have condemned Russia's invasion of Georgia and continue to do so.
I feel as though I am dreaming when crises are spoken about, because all crises - the financial crisis, the environmental crisis, world hunger - are interdependent, and we cannot resolve one crisis without resolving the others.
(The President interrupted the speaker to reprimand some Members who were causing a disturbance)
As a result it is possible to use the Baltic Sea successfully as a pilot area for the marine strategy.
Nevertheless, it considers that a complete ban on the use of pesticides in so-called 'sensitive' areas is disproportionate.
The aim of this network is to encourage transnational cooperation among associations of victims of terrorism and to provide greater protection of victims' interests at EU level.
The proposal is also part of the Small Business Act initiative which aims to stimulate activity in the more than 23 million small- and medium-sized enterprises in the EU with a view to developing the economy and creating new jobs.
In addition, thanks to the work in committee, numerous other interests have been taken into account that further expedite or simplify the procedure.
Broadband could also be essential to help businesses go forward in agriculture, tourism and all those businesses that are linked to the Internet.
Almost 800 people from over forty countries have been detained there in disregard of the Geneva Convention - without charge, without a lawyer and without a trial.
I insist that this Commission, and President Barroso in particular, abandon this conspiracy of silence and publish their declarations openly and transparently on the Internet for all European citizens to see.
For the first time, a European waste hierarchy is being introduced.
The question, therefore, is: which taxes should be increased?
This is why we would ask the Commission to guarantee this expertise by drafting in more health experts and also by working more effectively with the WHO and the Member States.
Should the Union accede only to the Convention itself, or should it also become a party to the protocols?
I believe it is essential for civil servants to be accountable to the general public.
Having said this, even a good tool can always be improved.
Every crime perpetrated by a teenager is the result of an educational failure by adults.
Absolutely no one, and least of all Mrs Wallis.
The use of criminal sanctions in this proposal should not be the competence of the EU and those that argue that the expulsion of migrant workers is the solution to exploitation are misguided.
In addition, of course, if I am abroad and things go wrong, I need to have a place that I can turn to.
I would just like to say a few words on climate change, because it is, of course, in our interests to engage India in the run-up to the post-Kyoto regime.
Within the customs union, the efficiency of import and export procedures is vital for the Union's competitiveness and for the protection of its citizens.
I should also say that Shen Yun promotes the philosophy of truthfulness, tolerance and compassion so it is not surprising that the Chinese Government and Communist Party fear that contrary ideology.
Otherwise, we will always have imbalances in this regard.
My second point concerns the financial markets.
European integration is based on the law.
But a lot has already been done, and I am glad to note that the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council have reacted quickly and cooperated closely to respond to the crisis.
In this context, among other measures we must support the creation of a European Cultural Heritage label, which I feel sure will increase our fellow citizens' sense of belonging to a common cultural space and identity.
The recent decision to incorporate children's rights into the Lisbon Treaty as one of the objectives of the EU will provide a new legal basis for children's rights.
The European Parliament cannot agree with the use of capital punishment, and Belarus is the only country in Europe which applies this kind of penalty.
At the end of 2006 the Commission presented a communication reviewing the 1994 Directive on deposit-guarantee schemes.
If we claim to be democrats ourselves, we should do all we can to support Bangladesh in this endeavour.
in writing. - (SK) European consumers are often confronted with unfair commercial practices and deceptive and misleading advertising.
The Council is not prepared to participate in a common communication strategy.
Moreover, it is stipulated that five shall speak, although we have given 10 the floor.
Let us start, therefore, with the first one that is claimed time and again, namely that consumers are asking for this, and here the advocates claim to be supported by the Commission's Internet consultation in this regard.
This is not a matter of identifying a political priority but of making technical savings that often double the margin in some headings, as Mr Färm said regarding sub-heading 1a.
That is why I reject the attempts of some members of the far left to dress up this appalling crime in political terms, which are only intended to legitimise a regime that is neither tolerable nor acceptable.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Panzeri for his excellent report on more effective prevention of undeclared work in the EU.
The problem is that citizens see Lisbon as being concerned with organisations rather than individuals; we need to persuade them that it actually concerns them;
As the intention is for us to progressively build on our relationship in economic, security policy and education policy terms, it is extremely important that all our partners respect European values.
Secondly, there is the contamination limit.
Twenty per cent, however, is still a very high figure, and when you compare this with the numbers of people employed by this industry, we are talking about more than 400 000 jobs.
I would also like to state, although this is a detail, that the so-called firms with PO box addresses are not a manifestation of the posting of workers or of freedom of movement.
Under existing Treaty powers, all Member States must agree to laws in the area of anti-discrimination.
At the national level it will - indeed it is already doing this - stimulate the development of national qualifications frameworks.
The respirator, now the EU, each year gives millions of euros in direct aid and intervention to European sugar growers.
This means, in my view, that powers should be put in place at that level so that direct supervision is possible.
With regard to the question of other European Member States, I would be grateful if you could explain the situation to me.
I believe it is important that flanking measures are in place and there is access to dealing with the agreed administrative barriers, as well as some other measures absolutely needed to be successful in this area.
Second, to avoid duplicating structures and embed this process into the institutional framework of the Union.
The EU should assume a leading role in relation to demilitarisation and disarmament, especially in the field of nuclear disarmament.
Why was it not checked by state inspectors and by the company itself?
I am convinced that the Commission's approach is balanced, since the objective is to support flexibility and security simultaneously and, as has already been said, as two elements that are synergetic and in no way inconsistent.
The role of the country holding the presidency is neither to promote its interests nor to make decisions.
The possibilities for training are extremely unevenly distributed.
Other solutions must therefore be considered.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are closing a very fast process to reform the Deposit Guarantee Directive.
Eight Member States already have legislation along these lines in place, but we also need to be able to regulate relationships between subcontracting chains at Community level.
I would like to underline that if Parliament votes for this package it has to be implemented into national law by 2010 and the new telecoms authority will come into existence by this summer.
This seems to me, whether the allegations are true or false, to be yet another example of wholly improper behaviour.
This equates to a total available envelope of EUR 8 billion for all the Member States.
Surely that is completely out of date!
Draft amending budget No 9/2008 (
That will certainly be an opportunity for Parliament and the Commission to engage in constructive debate once again.
The Florenz report rightly focuses on smoking among young people and the harmful effects of passive smoking in workplaces, public buildings and catering and drinking establishments.
We disagree, but we discuss them and we try to exchange ideas and arguments.
The Commission therefore welcomes the report by Mr Schröder and will provide a detailed reaction to the points raised in due course.
While the eradication of poverty is the primary development policy objective of the EU, many policy initiatives undercut this purpose.
When roads are being maintained by local authorities, we have had some terrible tragedies on these roads, and this is an issue that perhaps needs to be looked at from a European point of view and standards put in place.
Europe cannot and should not regulate everything and in every detail.
The significance of energy efficiency lies in its ability to achieve perceptible results faster than by any other means.
One person in four will experience some form of mental health disorder at least once in their lives.
I would particularly like to touch on what was said by Mrs Andreasen and Mr Ehrenhauser, and point out that when we began this process there was no agreement whatsoever.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Jouyet, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, firstly if I may, I would like to recommend a good book for your Christmas holidays: the wonderful biography of the Countess of Ségur.
Even if the problem of heat dispersal is less serious in these areas, the buildings are no more environmentally sustainable.
Belarus is very high on our agenda, but not solely because it is one of the countries hit hard by the current financial crisis in the region.
In our opinion, it is important to strengthen the powers of the European Safety Agency and to allow it to rely, at all times, on scientific advice, on the basis of which it could justify its decisions in all circumstances.
I know well the importance of good regulation for making markets function well and for transparency, but let us not kill off the goose that lays the golden egg.
I cannot understand how these people dare to reject such a clear amendment to the report in this very Chamber.
Are we following an intelligent, integrated strategy in aiming to combat the causes of terrorism?
Mr President, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, you represent the continuity of a policy, Mr Barroso, which has contributed to the greatest economic crisis in post-war history.
We can talk about anything with Tunisia because it is a reliable partner.
The opportunities include greater flexibility and access to services for customers, while there is a possible risk in the insufficient level of protection for consumers.
It really is too soon to mention the deadline of the COP16 in December 2010.
The main aim of the agreement is to ensure greater protection for workers against the risk of injuries caused by all sharp or pointed objects used in medicine.
I would welcome the Irish Government putting that in place.
That is why we must work together to solve the problem.
Your report, Mr Medina Ortega, will serve as a crucial foundation for future work, since the Presidency will take due note of today's debate.
However, I consider that the report contains very many wordings that I cannot support, so I chose to vote against it.
The European Community imposes high-level standards through which we protect our consumers.
This is my last speech, as I have already said.
This progress is above all the fruit of the business restructuring efforts of course, but it is also the result of a policy of reform and sound administration on the part of most of the Member States.
This ombudsman has so far demonstrated an ability to operate with this principal so I welcome his re-appointment.
The Commission will only prepare MSY plans on a regional basis and only after a detailed consultation with the sectors involved.
This also demonstrates that, with perseverance, creativity and dialogue, we can emerge from situations that are seemingly at a standstill, even on social matters, even in Europe, even in order to adopt directives.
This does not mean that we support the proposal in this amending budget for emergency aid.
The time has come to go further and to consider unifying customs administrations to a degree that goes far beyond the current cooperation, whose limits are clear today.
Here, it is very clear that we need complete transparency in the market, which is why the third regulation package really addresses the separation of transmission activities from the supply activities.
Mr Staes has presented a report on this that I would have endorsed wholeheartedly six or seven years ago, but in those six or seven years, many things have taken a turn for the better.
It was proposed that a single body should be set up to deal with forest protection and the creation of a forest register.
I am, of course, fully conscious of the problem, but at the present juncture this is the only answer I can give you.
An awareness and the study of each other's history is essential so that the citizens of the countries of Europe can start to develop an awareness of the fact that they are also European citizens.
The first is that, by encouraging the recognition and supervision of alternative measures to prison sentences, we are promoting a political culture which will make the courts more likely to apply these measures.
Europe just has to realise that the stronger the Chinese become in Africa, the less powerful is our Western message of democracy, freedom and good governance.
Quotas must be abolished completely, and the distortions in the market must be eliminated.
The European Union's value base is structured around a respect for the principles of human rights and equality.
This House has been a very strong supporter of energy efficiency.
(FR) Mr President, I shall confine myself to these few comments and observations.
Russia though, unlike Turkey, belongs culturally, spiritually and geographically to Europe.
Mr President, this is about the building in Strasbourg and the decision to go back.
The EU is a 'soft power', in other words the method of persuasion through involvement was proved by the Georgian situation, when President Saakashvili drove the intensified process back into the pool of democracy.
This should also be welcomed by the industry, which will, of course, continue to be able to influence the implementation of the directive as well as the development of new practices.
This is, truly, an absolutely unacceptable situation.
Protection of workers against asbestos (codified version) (vote)
This is not only about Kosovo's future, but about the future of the entire Balkans region and of Europe as a whole.
The Member States are required to ban any obstacle to their incorporation and business and to safeguard their right to a fee for their 'services', in other words, the ransom for their slave trade.
The detailed report by Manolis Mavrommatis highlights the numerous areas of life affected by sport, and I should like to look at just a few of them.
It is true that we have a process - the accession negotiations - which we must follow in good faith.
Once adopted, the directive will make it possible to fight more effectively against those responsible for polluting the seas.
The overall development and therefore the global influence of the European Union depend on optimal use of all its resources and instruments.
Delaying all of this is of course a disappointment, but it should not distract us from the central objective of seeing the Treaty of Lisbon in force.
The outrage I feel is shared by United Nations agencies which are active in that region.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the resolution on the transplantation of human organs.
Worryingly, subcontracting may increasingly be used as a way of reducing direct social responsibility.
It's a cruel and evil government'.
I believe that today's debate should be a debate on how we can contribute to resolving problems.
The resolution goes even further - it proposes subsidising the poorest countries.
Now that we have the Treaty of Lisbon in place, that is no longer possible.
They are superseded when formal legislative acts come into force, and they contribute to the interpretation and enforcement of Community legislation.
Our aim is to avoid third-country nationals arriving in the European Union having the impression of entering an impregnable fortress.
Ultimately this means, as all my fellow Members will know, that the GHS is not the last word on the subject of the classification and labelling of substances.
Fourthly, all countries are interested in the Caucasus, including the United States and the countries of the European Union.
We need to forge ahead if we are to bring to an end what is truly a scandal as regards the situation of women, particularly in the poorest countries.
This vision gains new importance in today's troubled political and economic situation.
It would seem to be time, eight years after it was created, to think about strengthening this institution by giving it the means to function effectively.
I would appreciate clarification on this.
Ladies and gentlemen, that is unacceptable.
That is not freedom of expression, that is violence that has to be eradicated through policies and has to be punished by the instruments of the law.
Through the Treaty of Lisbon, we have created new relationships, and these new relationships must not be undermined again through the back door.
These businesses are, of course, profit-driven and will always find a way to reduce costs, but will not necessarily take into account the safety of animals or our health.
By 2020, the EU must increase its energy efficiency by 35% and reduce its consumption of primary energy by 20%.
The EU uses vague wording and empty expressions of good intent.
The European Social Fund supports the Arturo Toscanini Foundation in Italy.
I would therefore be reassured if tomorrow we see macro-prudential supervision attached to a strong Community institution, with micro-prudential surveillance necessarily remaining fragmented.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (ET) Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues, health is one of the most important resources for every person.
Within the European Council Working Group on Human Rights (COHOM), the Presidency organised discussions in April with a view to exchanging information on visa issuing practices.
In the field of trade, too, it seems to me the draft recommendation has not been worded strictly enough.
The burden that this represents rests primarily on the young and middle-aged generation, and especially on women.
I therefore welcome initiatives in this respect from the French Presidency.
A Europe that one historian has called 'Not so much a place but an idea'.
We voted against this amendment, as we believe that the amendment itself is contradictory, as it calls for EU aid to be provided without distorting free and fair trade.
There is only one solution for the challenge of our ageing society: to respect older workers and provide proper jobs for the older generation as well.
As part of the fight against poverty, we should finance programmes such as the free distribution of food among the poorest.
Thank you very much, and I look forward to the answer.
I abstained on the poultry carcass issue, primarily because I believe there is evidence to refute the claims that we need to keep the ban in place.
As you pointed out, in the absence of a framework, either couples go 'forum shopping' or the dominant partner has the final say.
What I can tell you is that during the next phase the Commission will be even more determined to build a genuine European energy policy and to combat climate change.
The gap between the rich and the poor in many EU Member States is increasing.
I support the amendments made in plenary which deal with more stringent control over capital.
As to the number of products from developing countries, we have to find solutions to the challenges of globalisation.
We can only welcome the fact that the European Parliament is adopting them and, in so doing, will become one of the institutions that is most involved in this fight.
This mother makes an appeal: 'I should like to see him once again'.
In fact, the internet, for the first time in the world, has come to represent the exercise of a right and a fundamental freedom.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Morillon report amending the North-East Atlantic Convention.
Finally, within these urban areas, in 10 years the number of daily trips in private cars increased by 70% and each individual trip increased by 20%.
I would like to support as strongly as possible the draft resolution on a general ban on cyanide technologies in mining throughout the European Union.
As a result, they were, shall we say, cooperative as it was Mrs Condoleezza Rice who got the six-point agreement signed.
Corrections to votes and voting intentions: see Minutes
I could never imagine in my youth that one day I would speak in it.
I hope you will take that on board.
The real law enforcement happens at Member State level, but the coordination is carried out by the European Central Bank.
It is a word which attracts other European countries to our Community and, at the same time, obliges us to enlarge the EU further.
Women who give birth to albino babies are forced into divorce.
The text complies completely with the principle of subsidiarity, and it is also fair.
Commissioner McCreevy is regulating hedge funds, Mrs Berès is permitting own-initiative reports and Gordon Brown, too, has changed his mind.
Violations of human rights are an everyday occurrence in Somalia by all sides in the conflict, with torture, rape, murder and attacks on civilians.
Another issue that we face, both in the short term and in the long term, is, of course, the climate and the financing of climate policy.
What we must be careful of in the field of taxation is not taking into account the needs of certain Member States.
I do not wish to dispute those charges here.
Mr President, I rise on a point of order to enquire whether it is going to become a precedent that we are to find, on our desks in this House, items of information relating to motions to sign.
I would like to ask the Council to present its opinion.
We need to fully apply the anti-discrimination legislation to Roma people and to take further initiatives to integrate them in our society.
Therefore, your God and our God are the same and single one and we all worship the same Creator.
Some Member States have already made efforts towards consolidation.
Our relations with Uzbekistan have gone through a difficult phase over the last few years, notably since the events in Andijan in May 2005, and we remain seriously concerned about the human rights situation.
In other words, where a Member State suffers a greater deficit in order to combat unemployment and unemployment then falls dramatically, would it not make sense to promote such an approach?
The incentive is that a person living, for example, in Africa might have to risk his life in order to journey to another country, thinking that he might find work there, even if illegally.
These measures, which I support in principle, Mr Tavares, require a detailed prior financial study.
The European Central Bank's main mandate is to keep prices stable.
The best evidence of this is the lively response from businesspeople, local authorities and the scientific community in Lower Silesia.
Like her, I too observed that, earlier, a majority in Parliament voted to defer the vote for the reasons she raised.
These rules have been included in the Community Code as an integral part of this Code.
The obsession with security undermines cooperation and leads to an 'anything goes' internal policy: from nuclear fusion to reliance on biofuels.
I would like to spell out a couple of key problems.
During our next plenary session in Strasbourg we will hear the European Commission' report on the humanitarian aid provided and the conditions for the provision of aid there.
This subject is a matter for subsidiarity, and not for the European Union, which does not, and should not legislate on eugenic practices.
It is essential to monitor the results of settlements and obligations agreed by them during successive rounds of consultations, as it is only in this way that real progress can be achieved.
We must seize all opportunities that the seas and oceans offer us, while always acting in a sustainable way.
Moldova is not in the neighbourhood of Europe, it is geographically in Europe and should be entitled to join the EU once the three Copenhagen criteria are fulfilled.
It is not appropriate for a company to produce the research and 'commercial arguments' itself, as if that were enough to win the arguments about health.
Therefore, I welcome this timely debate and the Commission's efforts to tackle this matter, as all of us have let this area go for too long.
(PL) Mr President, the proposed changes to the milk market and the creation of a milk fund are meant to provide support to farmers and consumers, not to damage the existing situation.
It was adopted, however, by a very large majority (no roll-call vote).
We have to equip ourselves with the capacities that will enable us to flourish in competition with other traditional and new tourism markets.
(DE) Mr President, we did not know that the Liberal Group might want a resolution and, if so, that it would not be tabled until the next part-session.
Many interests are at stake and many fellow Members question whether this directive is necessary.
Hopefully, this year we will also get a chance to look into the effectiveness of the laws we formulate and adopt here.
I support the call for cooperation among European Institutions at national, regional and local level, as well as among the social partners in the five priority areas of support for mental health.
I also agree entirely with the rapporteur's view of a balanced but at the same time energetic way of performing one's duties.
in writing. - I am the strongest supporter of genuine human rights and therefore have no difficulty with many aspects of this report.
The Court of Auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
The chemical industry has to contend with European climate policy.
This will probably mean that we will find it very difficult to continue drinking our groundwater untreated as we do today.
I believe that we cannot leave the marks of our identity or the coherence of our policies behind; those same policies have enabled us to show our better side to the whole world.
(FR) Madam President, for once we have something to smile about.
We need to keep on working, we need to keep driving gender equality policies forward.
As two major actors on the global stage, our strategic partnership is increasingly focused on addressing global challenges.
I can only hope so, and wish for the French Presidency to make the adoption of the common position in the next two weeks another of the great achievements of its term of office.
Evidence of this is the adoption of the Services Directive and the Chemicals Regulation, REACH, in recent years.
What is important for the postal sector, its customers, its operators and its employees is that there is a final and unconditional date for full market opening.
How much does it change your behaviour?
The public service broadcasters across the European Union should not neglect high-quality niche programmes in order to compete with privately owned broadcasters.
However, we vigorously denounce the reasoning that the social and human tragedies experienced by European workers should be regarded simply as 'adjustments' necessary for the smooth running of neo-liberal globalisation.
The Community Customs Code (CCC) was established by Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am very happy to see how quickly and efficiently Parliament has finalised its first reading and that it is ready to vote tomorrow.
Again, the Commissioner has recognised this and I look forward to working with her.
For this reason, I have voted against this report.
I therefore call on you to support the common position and would conclude by thanking you all for your attention.
The Single Market integration process is not an irreversible one.
We want the European Union to intervene more actively in this area and to step up its involvement in assisting these countries in their reform processes.
It is very important that Russia becomes a member of the WTO.
I think it gives confidence to consumers and I think that it not only puts more money in the pockets of fishermen who have got their fisheries sustainably certified, but it also gives them a sense of pride.
When it comes to the extremes, I can tell you that I would be worried if they did vote for us.
On the other hand, we must observe our commitments to climate protection.
Overseas Countries and Territories adjoining the ACP also merit special attention, in accordance with the association agreements that already link them to the Union under Article 299(3) of the Treaty.
We hope that the Czech presidency will be able to accept this proposal.
In other words, we definitely have a lesson to learn from the United States in many areas, at least in issues of democracy.
On the other hand, 50 claims have already been judged under Article 14, and the Commission has pronounced itself in favour or against.
With this in mind, I can therefore fully support the text before us today.
The future importance of nuclear energy demands excellence in the conditions for its implementation and in the conditions for the exchange of essential information, so that uniform safety conditions of the highest quality can be established.
So he sends his apologies for his absence and also sends his greatest respects to Ms Vassiliou and welcomes her to the Commission.
It contributes to climate change but it is also affected by it: that has been stated already.
I guess the answer can only be Mr Barroso, because he is the only one that anybody in the world has ever heard of and is probably the big winner out of these posts.
We should also focus more on the preservation of cultural heritage.
Five times more employment created in the euro area since the euro has been in existence than in the decade prior to the existence of the euro.
What they want is more employment with rights which presupposes a commitment to production, more investment in high-quality public services and respect for the dignity of workers.
I would urge colleagues here to do that in the future.
(EL) Mr President, the increase in prices and the impending food shortages are assuming worrying dimensions.
In my view, flexibility is fully covered by making the reference period a year.
We are also talking about our agricultural sector and high-quality food production, which are also competitive on the world stage.
These are important votes and it is a very full agenda and I have every sympathy with you.
There are, however, a few areas we should discuss further.
With it, the European Union has embarked upon a long journey towards a low carbon emission European society, one that is sustainable from a climate perspective as well.
I count on Parliament and on the incoming French presidency to make full use of the months ahead in order to reach an overall agreement.
The message we wish to send to the Council is this: shoulder your responsibilities, present a united front; what we need is not a gesture but a coherent long-term policy.
Changes to data must take place individually, and I want to stress again that we cannot trample on human rights in the name of the fight with terrorism.
We all have a responsibility to ensure all of our fellow men are cared for and look after.
Madam President, Commissioner, I should like to start by welcoming the initiative on such an interesting issue as the role of culture in the development of the regions of the European Union.
There is an obvious lack of solidarity of the European Union's leaders - Germany's in particular - regarding the agreement on Greece's situation.
I hope that you, my fellow colleagues, will vote on this legislation on Thursday.
Capital and its political representatives are placing the burden of the credit crunch on the shoulders of workers and are attempting an all-out attack on workers' rights in order to safeguard their profitability.
It is also a requirement that the legislation is kept up to date in the light of scientific and technological developments.
We, the European Parliament, are representative of citizens and of the states at the same time.
Ukraine is currently obliged to pay an intermediary company an extra USD 500 million a year.
The fight against tax fraud must be a priority for the EU, specifically in the area of value added tax.
There are 11 people on the list.
We must take note: being flexible is not synonymous with doing nothing.
The outlook of this report is based on the principle of gender mainstreaming, and the report raises various matters which have a bearing on that principle.
I have not taken up a position on this subject.
The Commission should approve the rest of the programmes without delay, so that the appropriations reserved in the budget can be spent effectively and fruitfully, and so that the new programmes can get under way properly.
Those regions which are exposed to international competition, those which depend on small and medium-sized enterprises and those in which access to credit is very important are now falling victim to this process and depression is even threatening.
Furthermore, wars against Muslim countries only provoke terrorist outrages.
There is an old German saying: many roads lead to Rome.
Because of this I am very pleased that the Commissioner has promised to establish a committee to examine this matter.
Madam President, with this resolution, our Parliament intends, as a matter of course, to support the Commission's very proactive policy on the fight against smoking.
We have remarkable technology at our fingertips, but the very freedom it gives us has also left criminals free to abuse the technology.
The new approach is aimed at ensuring the most rational use of available means and identifying potential savings.
The insertion in the agreement of a human rights and democracy clause is clearly not enough to ensure that such basic conditions are respected, nor is the promise to scale up consultations within the United Nations Human Rights Council.
EU policies provide many solutions that are respected globally, such as decisions by the European Competition Network or actions to reduce climate change.
The final version of the draft agenda for this part-session as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 20 November 2008 pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
This is the aim of the amendment that we have tabled.
We have therefore all been given the opportunity, under the French Presidency, to open this debate and to try to reconcile our positions; this is what the Commission likewise hopes to achieve.
Turkey has a duty to apply it in full and in a non-discriminatory way.
Once illegal immigrants have been allowed to stay in Member States, they can then travel to other EU Member States.
We need to take medium and long-term measures.
Instead of broadening minority rights, it is doing the opposite and curtailing them.
That, at least, would be money well spent.
So let us all work on them.
However, in another very important respect, it is also a problem that has to do with overcapacity.
What does work - as the railway undertakings in a number of Member States show - is additional investment in comfort, punctuality and attractive pricing, and that of course requires political commitment.
The Consumer Scoreboard serves as an alarm system, telling us even when the internal market is letting consumers down.
We already heard last year, when we introduced the voice roaming package, that the operators would be forced to raise the national cost for voice mobiles, but what we saw was just the contrary.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have to take action against this.
(HU) Thank you for the opportunity to speak, Madam President.
The answer will be given by the citizens, by rewarding those who are calling for legislation and punishing those who wanted to persuade us that self-regulation is the panacea for all the evils we are experiencing today.
This is a good transitional measure that was necessary in order to define more clearly what is possible.
When the flu threat became known during the weekend, they agreed to meet for urgent talks on the Thursday - which strikes me as a redefinition of the word 'urgent'.
I would also like to thank Mrs Liotard for an extremely good report, which, compared to the Commission's proposal, has substantially enhanced the parts that I think are particularly important, those being public health and consumer protection.
The number of orders is rising, and the demand for large container ships is increasing.
Mr President, Mr De Gucht, Mrs Joly, I am, of course, very aware that, in this type of debate, we will inevitably hear a series of speeches all saying the same thing.
There are three important political problems involved here.
Concerning the registers, both Parliament and the Council agree on a stepwise approach.
In the light of events, it seems to me that, following the initial very sceptical reaction, the Commission slowed down the process of further work considerably and is still considering how to proceed in relation to the action it began.
(SK) I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur for the report on the Bologna Process and its impact on student mobility.
Member States can continue to exercise and regulate their health systems, and they can decide for themselves what benefits they want to offer to their citizens, and to what extent.
In addition, the Government of the Philippines must urgently resume peace negotiations with the MILF and both sides must renounce violence and solve their differences at the negotiating table.
Unfortunately, they often take a ridiculous stance.
The structural funds are decentralised in nature.
Most of you probably know me only thanks to my journey by bicycle from Prague to the European Parliament in Strasbourg, which was 866 km long.
Energy consumption and polluting emissions can be reduced quickly and cheaply by boosting energy efficiency on a global scale.
Farmers should not be subsidised according to past yields or land ownership.
These contracts are valid until May 2011.
We cannot entertain the thought for one moment that the whim of some leader can prevail over the will of the majority.
The industry must demonstrate that quotas work and are applied, and that illegal fishing can be controlled.
You have to be very careful when using words, so Article 181a is a maybe, but I am not very happy about it.
I may seem too conservative to you, but I think that we also need to address this balance.
We need to find concrete answers and we also need to anticipate the consequences that this crisis will have on the financing of the economy, and on the economy itself.
It is important - and in Europeans' own interests - that Tajikistan should succeed in tackling its difficulties.
I hope that today's debate will also produce the results which the Commissioner has already promised us.
We must strengthen European legislation to combat violence against children, as Mrs Segelström made quite clear.
Hydrogen has different properties to conventional fuels such as petrol and diesel, so the proposal makes a priority of determining the necessary safety requirements.
Today the eyes of the world are very much on London, where world leaders are gathered to talk about the financial downturn and the global banking crisis.
This directive harmonises the calendar of the application of summer time in the EU.
It is therefore imperative that Member States transpose internal market legislation into national law in a timely manner.
Mr President, thank you for your speech.
Texts of agreements forwarded by the Council: see Minutes
We re-negotiated inland waterway transport and forced an additional compromise on the Council, as it were. Our concern was to finish at first reading.
I say this as a citizen of a country that has benefited from this strategy.
Regarding agricultural market price formation, the Commission is committed to monitoring activities by speculative investors in commodity-related financial markets and also on their impact on price movements.
I do not think that it befits the EU to pursue such a policy in 2010.
Mr President, by sheer coincidence, Transparency International, the anti-corruption watchdog, released its annual corruption perception index today.
On the demand side too, policies could be launched to try and take painkillers to continents such as Africa and Asia which are practically bereft of any such medicines.
The Commission thus put forward its preliminary views on how the situation could be improved.
I deeply regret the fact that the Hungarian Members are using one-minute speeches, in every single part-session of the European Parliament, to attack the Slovak Government and, by extension, the citizens of the Slovak Republic too.
Surely we are not constructing a European Union in order to have discrimination against smaller nations with less resilient cultures, or, if we are, this should have been stated prior to accession.
The latest example of the regime's policy towards Tibet is the repression of the monks who expressed their delight at the award of the Congressional Gold Medal to the Dalai Lama.
I think it is convincing - here we stand united - being able to convince many that this is right and appropriate at the European level of discussion.
Indeed, the use of sport to empower individuals and combat social exclusion should not be underestimated.
In fact, the European Parliament requests that any international agreement concerning personal data be signed subject to the signatories having in force similar provisions to those contained in the directives mentioned above.
The Swedish Presidency of the European Council agreed with this proposal, to the extent of making it a priority in its own six-month term of office.
I would also have liked to hear you say something about the crisis in the financial markets.
The fact that she is here for this vote says much about her.
I am very proud that the European Commission and the European Communities have signed up to a human rights instrument for the first time.
(BG) The outcome of the last European Council meeting serves as an example of how to put into practice one of the European Union's basic principles: solidarity.
(DE) Commissioner, the historical credit for setting in motion what Mr Kohl and Mr Mitterrand had decided to do back in 1982, and which is now finally becoming reality, goes to you.
Others include those, like the eight people in Albania, who gave interviews to the media; the so-called 'Tipton Three', British citizens who made a film criticising Guantánamo.
This restriction of freedom of speech, as proposed, is unbecoming for a country led by a man who came to power promising a new era of openness and transparency.
You will certainly remember Jean Charles de Menezes, killed in 2005 on the London Underground.
Perhaps an idea for the scoreboard in future might be to directly address the matter of overregulation, or 'gold plating', as it is known.
Mrs Wortmann-Kool has already mentioned the kick-start.
It concerns the resolution on voluntary youth activities adopted by the Council on 16 November 2007.
There are some countries where the state takes the additional burden from the shoulders of large families.
At the same time, 'A to G' is well known to consumers.
A specific financial pledge is needed to achieve this.
There is a very full agenda for this summit and the Commissioner and the representative of the Presidency have already spoken about this.
I was recently asked by some people attending a public meeting why they should take the trouble to elect representatives to the European Parliament.
The two countries, being embedded respectively in NAFTA and Mercosur, are big players in the region and they are key to our relations with Latin America.
Mr Davies, I fully agree with you in substance, but do make sure, including by checking with your group, that Members' presence can be guaranteed.
The content of the proposal - from a purely legalistic point of view - is limited.
This procedure will ensure a standard approach to all applications, thereby eliminating the risk of any 'gateways' to the Schengen area appearing.
This motion for a resolution calls for the adoption of a common definition of 'terrorist activity' and a clarification of the concept of 'non-extracted data'.
For this reason I urge my fellow Members to support these reports and the Member States - and the Commission as well - to duly follow them up.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the renewed social agenda adopted in July 2008, the Commission undertook to attend to the needs of an ageing population.
It is therefore a question of credibility for the European Union to see that the criteria and preconditions which it sets are satisfied with deeds and not just good intentions.
The Lisbon Treaty coming into being, particularly on the foot of the 67% vote in favour by the Irish people, is a great boost to everybody in the European Union.
It is very important for me that it underlines the importance of improving the systems for monitoring and controlling European funds and recommends simplification of these procedures.
If I find it confusing, then I suspect many of my constituents do.
The trans-European networks in particular ought to be improved.
Turning to the report, I would like to comment on the amendments proposed.
We therefore agree with the proposal in this question, which seems to us highly appropriate.
My problem is that both the Commission and the FVO consistently play down the impact of their findings and they minimise any adverse information.
Until now the civil liability legislation has simply not been dissuasive enough.
This is not only a measure that the Commission could take; it is also a measure which the individual governments must of course take.
However, I would like to ask: Does dialogue exclude the possibility of criticising the tenets of other religions?
There is a need for ongoing monitoring and set terms, so that the aim of the sanctions can be better understood and can be ended when the aim is achieved.
At first sight the water between Europe and Africa does not look all that deep.
I dispute the notion that the EU can bestow and regulate fundamental rights.
The obligation on food suppliers to monitor novel foods in terms of the health and welfare of animals would impose too great a burden on retailers.
Fortunately, therefore, we and the rapporteur have been able to do a number of things about this.
Thirdly, let us follow the example of the USA, where large sums, under the Farm Bill, have been set aside for the support of agriculture by financing free EBT cards.
I voted in favour of the report by my German colleague Mr Mayer on the amended proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on stands for two-wheel motor vehicles (codified version).
I receive numerous enquiries from citizens who cross into one of the neighbouring countries to work.
There is always a debate and polarisation when we are discussing issues around extra security measures - issues which might be perceived to be limiting what we generally refer to as civil liberties.
So I believe that is the right support to give.
Concerning general contract law, the services of Vice-President Frattini plan to organise several workshops during next year.
A lot of work is still ahead of us in order to create a more conducive environment for small and medium-sized enterprise.
It is particularly unacceptable that this form of this aid is falling in Hungary.
Today the ministers are meeting in Stockholm to discuss the Stockholm Programme.
(PL) The rapporteur rightly draws attention to the need to establish an appropriate framework for an open, democratic and content-based dialogue aimed at negotiating Economic Partnership Agreements between Member States of the European Union and ACP countries.
This could compromise the main priority of the Portuguese Presidency of the Council.
The problems of the latest developments on the Internet were scarcely considered, which is why I abstained from voting.
Sadly, this resolution does not call for an immediate end to the fighting, so we will not endorse that approach by taking part in today's vote.
Mr President, I firmly believe that our Parliament too will soon confirm its consent to possible Israeli participation in Community programmes.
Allow me to congratulate Mrs Thomsen, on behalf of the shadow rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group, Mrs Sartori, and on my own behalf as well.
This story, going back to the late 1940s, is a sad story which ended in creating a false idea about them.
Your own-initiative report of 2006 and your swift handling of the Commission's proposal are important contributions to the success of the new European Company Statute.
I would be grateful if the Commissioner could give us his frank appraisal of the Ergenekon affair.
I am in favour of joining with the British and American measures and imposing strict restrictions on trading activities and financial transactions with Burma.
I voted for this report because I think that what has been done in the sphere of mobile communications by the European Parliament is extremely important.
I believe the outermost regions of Europe should be given the required support that they need where possible in order to compensate for their location and the difficulties that entails.
So we ask the Commission to refrain from including such clauses, given the importance of capital controls, especially for poorer countries, to mitigate the impact of the financial crisis.
Show solidarity, though, and let the tobacco subsidies go up in smoke, for the sake of public health and for the sake of cohesion in European policy for the development of the poorest countries in the world.
Firstly, EU research will be centrally coordinated, will enable the development of feasible products, and will introduce these into the marketplace.
We therefore need a global, comprehensive approach, using all of the legal tools available to us, raising awareness in the media and ensuring that education systems are taking the problem into account.
Therefore, I think that if we start looking at the different Member States, it is possible to get some perspective on this.
(PL) Madam President, cohesion policy is the main pillar of the integration process.
We could also, for example, consider the question of whether deciding on pilot schemes and preparatory actions at this late stage is the best method or whether we should do that at an earlier stage.
Therefore, I think that it is important for us to agree on the issue of funding as soon as possible as well.
Family firms where the women assist in the business also play an important part - whether in the professions, in the trades, in retail or particularly in farming.
I would like to say that, in my view, this common register is not some kind of heavy animal which will threaten everybody.
The EU should also call on the countries neighbouring Burma to bring their influence to bear on improving the human rights situation.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I will be very brief.
In my opinion, an adjustment period is a better way to guarantee flexibility than an opt-out.
That represents an increase of 12% compared to 2006 and almost 35% compared to 2005, and the trend so far this year suggests a further increase.
If we fail with transposition of the acquis, this is a very unstable ground for the future.
Concerning passengers, the most important thing is to get people back home or to their destinations.
The European Union has been closely following the tragic events from the outset.
This evening the outgoing Parliament is handing over to the new Parliament, which will be elected from 4 to 7 June.
The EU livestock production is highly dependent on the import of animal feed derived from soya beans, maize and other crops.
Whereas the positive characteristics of nanomaterials are more or less familiar, the risks are largely uncharted.
Thirdly, we need to make a number of necessary technical changes.
I must say, though, that the successful integration of migrant children is something that concerns Europe as a whole.
We hope - obviously with your help, Mr Barnier - that we will actually now produce it quickly in order to avoid any misunderstanding here.
We must be able to protect our children before they become victims.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Of course, we have had a directive since January 2001, when the Council and Parliament adopted the current directive on summer time in the European Union.
These countries are backward too and are asking for help, insisting that they should receive assistance.
in writing. - UKIP considers terrorism as a major problem.
At long last, the Commission must quickly come up with some proposals for a common consolidated corporate tax base.
Particularly great attention must be devoted to small and medium-sized enterprises, which may be tokens of a welfare society and an appropriate level of employment.
I am already of the opinion that we should suspend the debate until Mr Borloo is here, then hear the Council and after that continue our discussions, for I do not want this to be a show event.
But also a lot more needs to be done so that Srebrenica turns from a sad historical memory to a place where life does offer prospects.
In the weeks and months ahead, will he follow up forcefully what he has asked already and for which he has not received answers?
This is what I think should be the guarantee to enable host Member States, smaller Member States in particular, to give their assent to this type of group supervision and these mandates to lead supervisors.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 25 October 2007.
We must rectify this situation, and we ask the Commission to consider the most adequate compensation measures for our passengers.
Nevertheless on balance I could have supported it.
This was a triumph for communication and if we continue in this way, we will bring Europe closer to the people.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the contributions that have been made.
The fourth Cohesion Fund report faces up to the new challenges and we certainly hope that the Commission takes into account that these challenges are also important in the outermost regions.
We must ensure that product safety is guaranteed on a general level.
In the meantime, the advantages and disadvantages of such a body need to be studied with care.
The euro as a currency has not faced this test before.
It is therefore necessary to pay close attention to this issue.
She has always indicated her support for improving consumer confidence.
According to that, all Member States are assumed to have started on an equal footing, budgets must be balanced and the deficit must be reduced annually, regardless of the standard of living or whether the deficit is already below 3%.
In around 80 of these cases, Member States indicated that they have been inspired by measures from other Member States in the development of their own policies.
The informal European Council is an important rendezvous at an important time.
The report even states - rightly, in my view - that the obligation for girls in the Muslim community to wear headscarves is detrimental to the development of their personalities.
There is no question but that the PPE-DE Group shares the desire to see light shed on the events in Italy.
I put my name forward at 17:00 and cannot quite comprehend the procedure.
I therefore believe, Mr President, that, setting aside hypocrisy, we now have a duty to start thinking in different ways.
- The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Kosovo.
What we are trying to do is speed up the transformation of citizens who control their own future into mere consumers, passive service-providers, and we could not do this any better.
Currently there is no roll-on roll-off link between these Member States.
I would like to say a few words about the context of this discharge.
In the meantime, Copenhagen has undoubtedly made sure everyone is alert, greatly heightening our environmental awareness.
in writing. - We approved of the proposal that the existing rules relating to the importation of live animals, meat and meat products should remain in force until replaced by measures adopted under the new regulatory framework.
(ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
Approximately 60 000 patients are on a waiting list for a transplant in the Member States of the EU.
Because the most striking issue now facing so many countries around the world, not just developing countries but developed countries, is the price of food and the difficulties that will create.
If those criteria are to be met and any decision to authorise trade is to be possible, assurances must be forthcoming that the activity is not detrimental to the state of conservation of the species.
I myself thought it would have been good if we had had greater openness on the matter of advertising time, but more flexibility is created here.
Nevertheless, a small unit is needed that would be specifically charged with implementation of the strategy for the Baltic Sea region.
Certain African states are already thinking along these lines, and this principle of equity also indicates that we, the countries primarily responsible for the phenomenon, are shouldering our responsibility for carrying mitigation forward.
This is why there is an urgent need for a directive against concentrations in the field of information that will regulate the dealings of those who are involved in politics and, at the same time, control very important media.
However, the proposed change is still not sufficient.
Frontex is an important actor in this but, first of all, we need to get the agreement and then continue in parallel discussions with Frontex.
The reason for the arms exports that we are discussing is to kill other people - opponents.
Member of the Commission. - The verification of compliance with the requirements of Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste-water treatment is a complex task as it implies the evaluation of data concerning thousands of agglomerations all over the European Union.
The internal market and consumer protection are therefore not conflicting issues, but rather are entirely congruous and this is a path that we must continue to follow.
No, we will decide - and that is something to protect Members and should be a guarantee for Members.
Decades ago the medical community documented the adverse and possibly fatal consequences of smoking.
The Member States must integrate this priority to acquire basic skills (reading, writing, arithmetic) into their educational programmes before their pupils specialise.
However, this is a message that is scarcely to be heard in the response of the Commission to the CARS 21 report and in the report itself.
I firmly believe that, at this point, we need to show some imagination, because, in the end, the greatest risk comes from not doing anything, today, and from not being bold when faced with a completely new situation.
These changes go in the direction of simplification, thus implementing a specific request by the European Parliament.
There is also the issue of Roma children: it is said that their life expectancy is 10 years shorter than that of the average European child.
The European Union and Humanitarian Aid (vote)
I think that, with regard to these products, we should give farmers the opportunity to organise themselves into inter-professional committees and support consortia where they can also take market decisions.
Without a functioning transport system, a Europe without frontiers that separate us will not be possible.
Another striking statistic is the very high number of children, running into the hundreds of thousands, who are homeless or live in institutions.
However, the effective application of Community law is still associated with serious challenges, including widespread delays in the transposition of directives.
The closure or the running-down of the Gdańsk shipyard could devastate the whole regional economy, destroying the lives of hundreds of thousands of people.
(PT) This debate on the Community budget for 2009 should be marked by the decisions not taken by the European Council this month.
Worse, will it not simultaneously drive them barefoot into poverty?
I hope that this new pesticides regulation will enable us to raise health and environmental protection to new heights in Europe.
The benefits from this include more than just the immediate benefit of a cleaner environment.
Therefore, because the text of this amendment is apparently not very clear, my group will withdraw Amendment 15 on the question of the bands of money requested to declare the financial disclosure of a lobbyist.
For years this House has relentlessly asked the EU to take up its responsibility to protect the victims of the bloody confrontations in Darfur and surrounding regions.
It is, however, important that this priority is not only expressed as a fine undertaking, but can also be reflected as a priority in the EU budget.
The EU has a chance now to gain status as a bulwark against globalisation and this will probably be its only chance.
Murder of human rights activists in Russia (vote)
It is so easy to disregard the principle of subsidiarity when we think we are doing good.
Firstly, irreproachable adherence to international auditing standards and the auditing practices and procedures introduced by the European Court of Auditors.
Green Paper: Migration & mobility: challenges and opportunities for EU education systems.
A second key aspect is humanitarian aid.
Mr President, the internet is the new village square.
I should like the Council to tell me what the situation is.
The European Union is first and foremost an economic union based on moral values.
It is also intended to help improve access to basic energy services.
Statement by the President-designate of the Commission (debate)
When are you going to get Member States to reject the whole business of giving diplomatic assurances?
Neither has the Treaty of Lisbon and we therefore have to wait for the time being.
President Barroso also addressed the burden of bank repair and reaffirmed the Commission's sympathy for novel instruments, including levies on banks to feed resolution funds.
The report also deals with the issue of food products containing nanomaterials, as well as the issue of food produced using nanotechnology.
Our proposals must be bold and must represent a valid starting-point for the shaping of real policies.
The crisis has sown uncertainty among investors, made it more difficult to obtain credit, increased unemployment and reduced production.
However, the European Community would be in a good position to defend its case, and the present dialogue makes this eventuality unlikely.
It is true that we must consider how to get Europe out of its crisis.
My question remains: what problem is the Council actually trying to solve here?
Of course, alongside the new legislative package, in the interests of improving quality we must also ensure that the directive is appropriately transposed into national law.
Unfortunately, this clause did not make it into the compromise between the Council and Parliament, which is now restricted to the first stage in outsourcing or subcontracting.
At a time when the temporary work sector is growing, as are other atypical forms of employment contract, we need to have a legal framework, and that is the decision that we are now taking.
Those flows of data are facilitated by the use of the internal market information (IMI) system, which already allows for the electronic exchange of information on the five main health professions.
The international community and we in Europe cannot and should not set ourselves up as judges of either side.
The increase in efficiency will play a very important and key role in future, not only in the production of energy, but also, and in particular, in the consumption of energy.
This resolution of Parliament follows previous commemorative resolutions from other international organisations such as UNESCO and OSCE.
I will try to briefly and as objectively as possible answer each of the three questions put to the Council.
And lastly, a third matter - our success depends to a large extent on relations with our neighbours.
In Copenhagen, where I was present as a delegate of the European Parliament, a non-legally binding accord was reached.
I also support the proposal in the report that there should be more information on Parliament's website on Members' activities and attendance.
Once again I want to underline the importance of convergent, horizontal work.
Finally, can we ensure that the data is being protected?
We agree that measures must be taken to ensure full compensation of those victims.
We must learn from past failings and ensure that independent investigations are carried out when accidents do occur.
We succeeded on all counts, with one exception.
In the resolution in question, the EU aims to gather the Member States under a common flag in order to steer the conference negotiations in what the EU considers to be the right direction.
I appreciate the effort and openness of the Member States and the Commission during the intense technical consultations required prior to the enlargement.
Many documents contain references to the need for special protection for the rights of the disabled.
My thanks go to Parliament, Mr Fava and the LIBE Committee.
We should not view this as a distant crime.
I want to have all the documents on the table now, and for all citizens.
Structural Funds can be seen as an overall subsidy provided by the EU to the less developed areas.
This makes good harmonisation and coordination of aid activities all the more important.
We are not in favour of Georgia's rearmament after its attack on the civilians of South Ossetia and Russian peacekeepers, and its pitiful defeat later.
With these funds, measures will be financed in the following three key areas, which extend from emergency aid to long-term development aid.
Ukraine's significant role in ensuring the security of EU energy supply should be considered comprehensively.
I cannot understand why we are so reluctant to tell consumers where products are made.
You delivered a fine Socialist speech, Minister; what you said here was marvellous.
Provided that all Member States adopt such mechanisms and that interconnection schemes are put in place, resolving cross-border cases would be possible and easier.
My second point is that I feel it is impossible to talk about the Euro-Mediterranean area without raising the Israel-Palestine issue, when we see products being imported today from the occupied territories.
This crisis is a structural crisis of capitalism and originates in the very logic of that system, the virtues of which the European elites blindly extol.
Mr President, I would once again like to congratulate you on your election.
We also support the highlighting of the morbidity and mortality burden of health-care-associated infections and the need to recruit more infection-control nurses.
The current crisis is an acid test, and we must understand its full significance.
But with respect to the ESA we need to look at good-governance issues in particular.
As many have pointed out, there is a reason why Germany faces a very different government deficit to Greece.
Dichloromethane would normally also be covered under the terms of REACH, but because the health risks are so evident and because there have been so many cases, we have given priority to this substance.
I welcome this report which includes important elements drawn from Written Declaration 111 on ending street homelessness, which was adopted by the European Parliament in April 2008.
Let me be clear that this right for patients should in no way be detrimental to Member States' ability to provide quality health care for all their citizens.
Let me just mention three reasons why we think a new treaty is needed.
Another cause of the crisis is a globalisation concept that has made complete deregulation its highest priority.
Libya did nothing, while the European countries stood around pointing the finger at one another.
Regrettably, I felt compelled to vote against these European Parliament proposals.
All in all, I feel that this is an extremely well-balanced report, an excellent piece of work by my Maltese colleague, Edward Scicluna.
The adoption of this resolution, Mr President, is the basis for a new level of employment security.
We must not blame the EU for the problems which exist.
The Lisbon Strategy, which some criticise, was actually heading in the right direction, overall.
(PL) I would like here, in the European Parliament, to refer to the statement made by Polish and German bishops on the 70th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II.
No longer are we talking about abstract messages - this must be a practical guide.
Commissioner, we are sure you will do an excellent job but, in the words of another Korean proverb, 'ask the way even when you already know it'.
It is imperative that there be a positive outcome to it soon.
Number two. Support should be given for the notion that the EU should assist the developing countries financially as well in achieving their climate policy objectives.
Well, in such cases, the Treaty has to be changed, it has to be amended.
These two instruments are important financial tools for combating the current recession and increasing employment in that they introduce integrated flexicurity strategies and ensure that skills are improved and better matched to the needs that exist.
Article 43(1) talks of assistance being given to third countries to fight terrorism in their territory.
In Europe itself, at least 20% of resources are wasted because of inefficient management.
However, where is the consistency, Commissioner?
It is now up to the historians, on the basis of fact and as long as there are survivors still living, to bring to an end the silence and the concealment of these events.
(EL) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, in the two and a half minutes during which you have spoken, you have confirmed the problem that I put to you in my question, but you have not adopted a clear position.
Article 53 of the Financial Regulation sets out that there should be an ex post publication of beneficiaries by Member States.
Although some positions diverged, I think that we were agreed on many important points, and shall agree tomorrow when it comes to the vote.
I therefore support the proposal to publish a Green Paper and to adopt a proper European strategy on this topic.
The profession has to be fulfilling. It has to be seen as a good career.
We have already mapped out a very ambitious and far-reaching programme in the field of justice and home affairs.
As I said, this will be next Thursday at our summit meeting with an early dinner to meet all your requests for as quick a process as possible.
The ensuing emergency raised many questions.
Parliament and the Commission must be encouraged in all policies designed to increase support among the citizens for the European project.
At the summit on 13 July we need to ensure that we are building this new Union for the Mediterranean project on the basis of true membership and true equality.
I fully understand that the debate on this issue is very often very intense, because it really concerns nations, nationality and languages.
We should prepare ourselves to discuss how to solve the problems of Europeans in a situation in which air traffic is paralysed.
Since the 1950s, world production of meat has increased more than fivefold.
Commissioner, I would ask you to follow up, as you always do, on enforcement issues.
In such conditions, even the very expression 'elections' does not correspond to reality.
In reply, I should say that the agreement provides that PNR data may be used for three purposes, which are specified.
(ES) Mr President, I believe we are discussing an extraordinarily important subject for the people.
This is why I support what Mrs Malmström has said concerning the need for an evaluation of all types of scanners.
This is well over a year, 18 months ago.
Approval of the minutes of the previous sitting: see Minutes
What about efficiency - the relationship between cost and benefit?
It will make no difference whether we do so today or leave it for a week; Macedonia will still be called Macedonia.
I also recognise that web-based health resources must be encouraged.
I voted in favour of a good report on a crucial issue: advertising and marketing, which have a great deal of power in terms of having a decisive influence on sexist stereotypes.
On the other hand, I notice they are still required to ensure - I quote, 'ensure' - that the products they put on the market without modification are compliant with EU legislation.
Another fundamental problem is that the State language law also includes sanctions.
This will also send out a signal to citizens and to farmers in particular that, when necessary, the EU can also make rapid decisions.
My group, together with the GUE/NGL Group, has proposed that we have a debate on the Iranian homosexual in mortal danger, and I would like to find a way of dealing with this.
If we can do that, we will have helped to safeguard our maritime heritage.
Now, coming to the questions raised, I would like to make the following remarks.
It is well known that it also limits reproductive ability, so it is a major success that we have prohibited its use not only in paints but also in cleaning materials and floor care products.
It still helps today to consolidate stability and peace in a region that is, effectively, our own front yard - not back yard, but front yard.
In December he also went on his first mission to China.
(NL) Mr President, my fellow Member, Brian Simpson, has already said that this House has always attached importance to passengers' rights and that it has stood up for them, very often in the face of opposition from the Council.
(FR) Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome your determination.
I believe that such a proposal was long overdue.
in writing. - The cloning of animals for food supply, I feel, carries with it various risks both to human health and animal welfare.
With this legal framework, the EU is moving ahead of legislation on other continents.
Ms Harkin, your point is noted and we will do what we can.
It did so on Saturday with the meeting of the European members of the G7, in the presence of the Commission President, the Eurogroup president and the president of the European Central Bank.
Although significant progress has been made in terms of achieving the objectives of the Beijing Platform for Action, adopted in 1995, gender inequality and stereotypes persist.
They are certainly not a reason to refer the whole thing back to committee, which would preclude the adoption of any of the amendments that have been tabled today and which would be most unfortunate.
Having combined their power in space, the 27 EU Member States would increase their potential to carry out successful independent civil and preventive operations pursuing common foreign and security policy.
EU nationals are being threatened with redundancy should they not agree to enforced flexibility.
When we were there, the World Health Organization did not see identify risk of cholera, but large numbers of children were suffering from diarrhoea and so on.
Everybody now knows what President-elect Obama has set as priorities - energy security, climate change - and he repeated this again yesterday.
For this reason, instead of measures like inspections and penalties for employers, it proposes incentives for capital such as 'reducing the non-wage costs'.
No payments were made by the Commission directly to farmers either in the Republic of Ireland or Northern Ireland, because there is no legal base for such compensation.
Obviously, though, these non-member countries have to cooperate much more actively with us and we are letting them know of our interest in that.
These are issued by national governments and between 5 and 10% of these are auctioned off.
We are asking for an aligning of reward packages with longer-term outcomes in order to reflect losses as well as profits.
- (CS) Mr President, 30 seconds will be enough for me.
More than ever, the Community must speak with one voice, and solidarity among the Member States is the basis for that.
One of those mentioned - and which I support - is the challenge of proposing energy sources that offer an alternative to nuclear energy.
I am well aware that there is a lot of disagreement surrounding this issue, but let me tell you what I believe.
We agreed on emission reductions for international transport and, despite resistance from some corners, we put figures on the global financial need in developing countries to fight climate change.
Mr President, animal welfare is, in fact, something that most of the citizens of Europe care about.
But, Commissioner, we cannot discharge our duty as legislator until you exercise your right of initiative.
This is because the key decisions being made now, before Christmas this year, concern the toys that will be in the hands of children next Christmas.
We must also conduct a detailed review of financial governance towards a system that is more favourable to long-time finance for the economy, to encouraging Europeans to save and to reducing volatility and financial speculation.
We certainly want you to take into consideration the petitions we receive, as you point out in your report.
We have a broad agenda that will feature progress in many areas.
I voted against this report, because it repeats the dangerous guidelines contained in the Treaty of Lisbon for the European defence and security strategy.
On climate, this year will be critical.
in writing. - (PT) The current way of managing variations is proving increasingly inefficient and is no longer satisfactory either for the authorities or for the pharmaceutical industry as a whole.
These agreements are not a panacea but they do represent a positive instrument which can be combined with other instruments.
I am of the opinion that climate resilience and low-carbon policies must be integrated into wider developments and the poverty reduction strategies of our partners.
That is the reason why, but, believe me, I am very happy with the changes that have been mentioned.
Parliament also rejected the Commission's plans to enact provisions at this stage prescribing the lifting of the ban on new planting in 2014.
Mr President, the report on the 2009 annual statement on the euro area and public finance was drafted during a period when the euro area was facing huge challenges and this period has not yet come to an end.
Just to refer now to European City Guide.
- (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, as you know, next year will be the European Year of Creativity and Innovation.
The argument that this would jeopardise freedom of trade is not relevant, in our view.
The next item is Question Time (B6-0462/2008).
We trust, Mr Borg, that the measures which you are proposing will help to highlight two problems which European fleets have been facing for a long time: excessive fuel dependency and the need to improve the marketing of fisheries products.
That section abhorred the western decadence in their country during the time of the Pahlavi dynasty, who were driven into exile in the late 1970s after making Iran an extension of America and Europe.
Oxfam have estimated that up to two thirds of a million people may be threatened in the current circumstances.
Those opposing the Treaty in Ireland are spreading scurrilous information about the minimum wage to be EUR 1.84.
To me this is just common sense and I think that we could all support this proposal.
(DE) Mr President, I would like to raise a point of order for your information.
Issues surrounding victims have been a concern and a priority for the Spanish Presidency, especially victims of gender violence.
(LT) First of all, I would like to thank all those who worked so hard on what are complicated, important and, in my opinion, the most important law-making projects of the year, especially rapporteur Mr Capoulas Santos.
That is why I have asked the ISPs when making contracts with parents to really inform them about the possibilities they have for preventing this content from reaching their children.
The Belgian rail network alone, with its 3 400 kilometres, is larger than that.
The Council has a very positive view of the constructive cooperation with the European Parliament that has led to us achieving this result.
I would, however, ask everyone to make an effort to act responsibly and in earnest, which we now need after all the delays and calls for a solution which have fallen on deaf ears.
However, the hard work is not over; in fact, it has only just begun.
(NL) Madam President, I have voted in favour of the Moreno Sánchez report with some reservations.
The amendments put forward by the ALDE, PPE-DE and PSE Groups - with which the Council has agreed - are, in my view, fair and reasonable.
The Council has adopted the fundamentals of the Eastern Partnership.
The Conference of the Parties to CITES will once again have to adopt more crucial decisions to protect species threatened by over-exploitation, to which international trade could be contributing.
rapporteur. - (ES) Mr President, our European Parliament has always wished to implement a policy of transparency with regard to our funds, the EU's funds.
We also voted against continued subsidies for tobacco producers and in favour of limiting the number of Parliament sessions in Strasbourg.
During the summer, Commission officials remained constantly available and gave feedback to the Polish authorities on the draft submitted to them.
Lastly, I should like to point out that I originally felt there should be no reference to specific countries.
However, in the majority of countries, there is no such coordination, which means that legislative discrepancies exist between the Member States.
We would never contemplate using this money for the purposes to which the EU is putting it.
This resolution establishes the main thrust of European transport policy for the next 10 years, with particular attention paid to reducing the impact of transport systems in responding to the problem of climate change.
The ENP applies to a huge area, from Morocco to Ukraine.
It is vital to invest in the judicial system to try and punish criminals and to ensure protection of witnesses and victims, many of them young working women caught in the wave of violence by the drug traffickers.
I feel that the EU-Brazil Strategic Partnership is beneficial for both sides.
The Commission is currently working on 143 simplification initiatives of which around half have already been adopted; 67 initiatives have already been adopted.
I see the way forward as prioritising such policies that would decrease the pressure on capital cities and support the development of second-tier cities.
We are also insisting that, under the European Fisheries Fund, funds are committed for the decommissioning of vessels in those Member States where there is overcapacity, in particular with regard to bluefin tuna fisheries.
Several Members mentioned the need for additional funds for new projects etc.
The Directive on fuel quality will become a pivotal tool in the fight against climate change.
Newly reexamined EU policy would enable Africa to use its natural and human resources in a mutually beneficial way and continue with the development of its economical and political independence.
With the growing economic interests in the Arctic, it is also important that the EU takes a position on various countries' actions in the area.
In relation to the election in January, I hope that the Government will pursue and continue to prepare for that election, and will make it possible for Ms Benazir Bhutto to campaign in a secure fashion.
The Safer Internet Programme is one response to threats already identified.
However, as has already been said, several European countries have announced drastic cuts.
However, to receive my support, Morocco must first respect human rights and stop oppressing the people of Western Sahara.
That is where I believe the discussions should take place and it is the best way to achieve our objectives.
It must be based on fairness, not favouritism, not because one Member State has pledged more finance than any others.
You only have to think of Hungary in 1956, when the US again offered their support, as we know.
In conclusion, I would like to say that trafficking in human beings also often occurs for the purpose of organ harvesting.
The European Parliament will be kept informed of any change regarding all of these new procedures.
Enshrining in the Treaty the ability to delegate to the Commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts to supplement legislative acts is a step forwards in that it places the two institutions on an equal footing.
At long last, corruption will be tackled, as well as organised crime, which is still far too prevalent in Kosovo.
Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, the review of the Working Time Directive has caught the attention and raised the concerns of millions of Europeans.
I am delighted therefore that your debate has confirmed the view of the Commission and I expect that the vote will go in the same direction, or at least I hope it will.
I am very happy with that result.
Cyanide also qualifies as a main pollutant under the Water Framework Directive (WFD).
In addition, we will have to hold general discussions over the next few months on adjustments, reviews and revisions.
I voted for the Angelilli report because we need RAPID, EFFECTIVE action to combat the causes and, above all, the effects of the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
We must ensure that Olympic stays airborne.
Secondly, the Green Paper on territorial cohesion expected in October must be the basis for cohesion policy after 2013: not renationalisation, but a long-term European effort, a single integral European policy.
As far as I am concerned, there are two questions that we must tackle.
This initiative aims to develop opportunities for cooperation in the audiovisual market, boosting research and training as well as financing coproduction projects in order to boost cooperation between audiovisual professionals.
We have to learn from earlier errors in development policy where we just granted technology without considering that we also have to inform people about this technology.
On the issue of the protection of human rights, this is a question of our fundamental credibility.
At the international level, one of the instruments that the EU can use to promote good governance in tax matters in third countries is to negotiate tax fraud agreements with them, which include a clause on an exchange of information.
In order to achieve this, we would like to suggest that progress be made on two very important points.
They will not be free and fair, but we must settle for one small step after another.
(IT) Mr President, I wanted to remove the words 'traditional practices' from the oral amendment, that is, the last two words of paragraph 9.
Nevertheless, I very much welcome and support this report.
So it is unlikely that we will be supporting that proposal as it is, although we certainly support the idea in principle.
This work is not of a legislative nature, that is true, but it is no less important.
The proposed procedure would streamline and speed up the authorisation process through a centralised food safety evaluation undertaken by EFSA, and would set precise deadlines at every stage of the process.
I know she gave up vital commitments to be here today and she has made vital commitments to this Parliament.
We have just had important elections in Israel.
That is why anything that can help to protect jobs and know-how in the European textile sector is positive.
The aim of the action was to help the deserted families in Darfur; the children - orphans - would be looked after by foster parents in Europe.
For example, exporters of machineries would save EUR 450 million annually on annual duty payments while exporters of chemicals would save over EUR 150 million on duties.
It is one of those success stories that we in the European Union have been able to create, see and implement, and I believe that the programme in this new format will expand and become an even greater success.
Surely we have our competition policy to deal with cartels and monopolies.
However, we must keep in mind that there were large deficits in the external trade between countries that led to this crisis, as well as other internal fiscal deficits.
There are three main building blocks to be considered.
We affirm that this Service should be assigned to the Commission for administrative purposes.
We do not need to look for a villain; we are all urged to take part in innovative discussions.
I want to push ahead with reforms in the use of Parliament's human resources and expenditure, so that they are focused directly on our programmes.
The first is to approve and give discharge to the Commission, the second is to delay, and the third is to reject.
You can rely on us to help you ensure that these women have influential positions within the Commission.
The Commission will not reach these fishermen unless it also adopts measures for small-scale fishing on 24 June.
This was an increase of 70% as compared to 2005.
It does not happen as a matter of course that people stand up for democracy today and that people can proclaim their convictions in public and are not locked up or subject to repression for doing so.
A new instrument has been created within the scope of European structural policy, the JEREMIE support initiative, which, above all, is about providing easier access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises.
However, it is clear that circumstances vary widely in the different Member States, and therefore the timetables will vary slightly.
We have also studied the proposal to already include in the financing the EUR 250 million which were added to the 2009 budget for rural development by Parliament in its final vote on the budget last year.
In recent decades, we have learned that there is no dynamic economic development that could automatically offer mobility, using the existing systems of redistribution, to those at the lowest social stratum.
My third point is that it was said that Mr van Baalen was accused of discussing a coup and this is why he was expelled from the country.
This is why the Dreamliner is the most subsidised aeroplane in the world.
I hope that Member States will see fit to transpose all elements of this important directive before the final deadline for implementation in order to give parents, as consumers, greater peace of mind.
I hope that the Israeli authorities realise the importance of this development.
We eventually ended up with maximum harmonisation and, in my view, this maximum European harmonisation will provide considerable protection not only for consumers, but also for the bona fide companies involved in the trade in question.
In so doing, the EU has begun to regulate one of our most popular leisure activities.
This is thanks to the Labour Government's top priority of eliminating homelessness and a strong focus on equipping people with the skills and training needed to move away from the streets permanently.
The report will definitely add some very significant improvements, welcomed by the Commission, to the initial proposal.
Nor did the Commission ensure that air passengers were fully and correctly informed of their rights, especially as regards cases of abuse of power in the application of the security rules.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, today we are discussing what is known as the 'open declaration'.
The TEN-T policy has supported the preparation of this major European project until now, and once it becomes operational, it will be possible to use the transport infrastructure much more efficiently.
In other words, even once the Lisbon Treaty comes into effect, provided it is ratified by all the Member States, Ireland, or any other Member State, will continue to have the right to veto any matter concerning taxes.
(ES) Mr President, thank you for your words at the start of the sitting about the terrorism suffered by two young Spaniards, which speak for the whole House.
Having many groups can help Parliament politicise bureaucratic Europe, because a Democracy is a Democracy and not an Order.
I voted that way because I believe that it seems unnecessary to convene a Convention to approve an amendment of the provisions of the Treaty on European Union.
However, this cannot mark the return to the Cold War, firstly because the historical circumstances are totally different.
This would be of the type which has been used on occasions recently and which involves freezing assets and foreign investment and putting in place a ban on travel.
As regards movement of goods, 25% are still subject to various national technical barriers.
The Pakistani army is involved in important operations for maintaining a military balance on the Afghan border, particularly in the provinces of Zabol and Helmand, where we are represented mainly by British, Lithuanian, and Romanian troops.
Lastly, complaints management must be better organised.
in writing. - I voted today in favour of the re-adoption of the Charter in its new form so that it will become binding on the European Institutions.
It is regrettable that some Member States are opposed to this programme.
The urgency now is to dig out the last survivors - if there are any left - to bury the dead, to feed the living, to distribute water, to treat, to operate and to rebuild.
in writing. - The EU strategy holds enormous potential for us and our neighbours within several policy areas.
We also call on the European Commission to offer the Indian Government financial and technical assistance through the Stability Instrument for such an inquiry, and possibly further measures of conflict resolution in Kashmir.
The Eurobarometer opinion poll showed that, with regard to GMOs, 94% of our citizens want the right to choose, 86% want to know more before consuming GMOs and 71% simply do not want GMO food.
It is only after such attacks that we undertake counter-measures, and thus we are acting ex post.
I say this because, in my view, only by reaching broad consensus at the base can the current technical and political obstacles be overcome to meet the ambitious objectives of this initiative.
In response to this imbalance, Europe needs to take different positions and look for new ways of working, because it is logical that, if the world has changed, we should change our working methods.
We are facing a new financial outlook, which means a sensible response is required from the Commission through reform and new adjustments in every sector, starting with the economy.
One of the main challenges facing the EU fisheries sector remains, in many cases, the structural imbalance between fleet capacity and the resources available.
To encourage student mobility, a whole series of measures needs to be taken since the problem of mobility goes beyond the scope of higher education and concerns the scope of social affairs, finance, immigration and visa policies.
As far as I can determine, the oral amendment has the approval of the other groups.
That is why I voted in this way and that is why what we have done today is important, if not historic.
The security of our external borders is a condition of the freedom of European citizens, and that is why we urgently need SIS II.
Thanks to the public enquiry in the Committee on Petitions in January, we can expect Nord Stream to undertake an impartial and comprehensive environmental impact assessment.
I am not prepared to be consulted after 7 June until this Parliament has been formally convened for its first sitting.
In my view, this is a massive problem, because ultimately, it is the next generation who will then pay the price of failed development policies.
Mr President, paragraph 16 of the Toubon report regrets that insufficient emphasis was placed on the potential contribution of nuclear power.
It will be an opportunity for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and an opportunity for the Europe of values and of peace.
Madam President, Parma is famous for its ham and the Champagne region for its champagne, but I wonder how many colleagues here realise that Yorkshire is famous for its rhubarb.
If Turkey were a car, it would long since have failed its MOT.
I would like to thank the Committee on Budgets Chairman Mr Böge, the shadow rapporteurs and coordinators of the political groups, my colleagues and the advisors and employees of the Budget Committee who took part in most of the discussions.
For these reasons, it is important to create a framework in which the Member States can support sports organisations and events.
To be frank, even after your statement, I am still at a loss to understand the precise reasoning behind this change in direction.
rapporteur. - Madam President, following the debate last night, I have agreed to withdraw Amendment 11 and to have Amendment 12 to paragraph 17 as an addition.
With this purpose in mind, consideration is being given both to the current needs dictated by the present economic situation, more specifically, the need to find a real-time response, and to identifying long-term measures.
The other question is what is to happen next with regard to debt.
The whole argument now is not about whether we should have transparency and have the ingredients on the label, because that is precisely what will be there.
(RO) Someone was saying earlier that we have already discussed Burma in this House.
That tool is the Court, and the Court should be supported, both financially and politically.
Biogas can be produced, for example, from manure and household waste.
It is really time now to act decisively.
The action plan talks about seminars, studies and evaluations.
Lastly, we have to organise the coordination of international relief efforts.
The centre-right and centre-left have ratified these EU and government decisions.
I would especially like to thank the rapporteur, Ms de Brún, for her efforts to reach an agreement on this issue, which is a sensitive one for some Member States.
I do not smoke, I think the warnings are wonderful and I will not smoke.
In some governments, too, where flexicurity is interpreted and championed solely as flexibility, trade union rights are being further curtailed at the same time.
I also see this to some extent as an endorsement of my own work.
Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, I am sure you will convey to the Council of Foreign Ministers the mood of this debate as well as our passion and commitment to the cause of human rights.
The European Parliament will, of course, be closely monitoring the supply of humanitarian assistance to countries in the region, particularly through the work of its Committee on Development and the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
Madam President, after seven years of work, the Lisbon Strategy is partly a failure.
Madam President, I just want to say that I agree with my colleague Ms McGuinness.
For reasons of logic, I oppose this new consequence of the legal personality of the EU, as provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon.
Well, this is a challenge we need to confront squarely.
All the analyses to date objectively state that all these countries are adequately prepared for the enlargement of the Schengen area.
Therefore we can do nothing other than regret the decision of the Republic of Korea's Constitutional Court that the death penalty is not a violation of that country's Constitution.
I will just make one or two remarks, concerning firstly the language issue, and addressed in particular to Mrs Lefrançois.
Who in Europe can say that he comes to the European Council, he does not listen to anybody else and goes away having achieved satisfaction on everything?
I believe that the compromise we have now reached is satisfactory to all parties.
For example, the global investment in research into the energy supply has been reduced by 40% since the 1980s.
For the last six years we have spent a lot of energy on institutional issues.
These two debates intersect at one point, they have one common ground.
Should these projects have to be abandoned, the co-contractor will obviously have to bear the corresponding costs.
This is the job of the new Commission and we will, of course, use both the hearings and the debates during the next quarter to call forcefully on the Commission and the Council to take on board these political priorities.
It would be worth reflecting as well on whether not only creating such web sites, but even viewing them ought to be considered a criminal offence.
I would very much welcome if one of those top jobs could go to a woman.
However, I do not agree with excessive lauding of Croatia because it has suspended the Ecological and Fisheries Protection Zone.
In fact, we think that the problems of contract law in Europe should respond to two key needs, which go hand in hand.
That is some EUR 654 million more than the amount appropriated to the first version of the programme.
in writing. - Ria Oomen-Ruijten's Turkey 2007 Progress Report is a comprehensive and encouraging analysis of the country's progress towards accession.
One of the biggest complaints we always get here in Parliament is that people do not know where European money is being spent.
in writing. - I welcome the Guardans Cambó report on the EU's Strategy to deliver market access for European companies.
I am, however, a little taken aback at the language in which it is expressed, which reminds me a little of the language of totalitarianism.
I encourage all fellow Members to endorse this report.
We should also keep in mind that the question of sharing information between institutions is not related to public access and we think that this should be handled separately, as it is currently.
Otherwise, it will continually be under the threat of collapse, and separatist movements, movements in individual island groups, religious and cultural movements that oppose each other will threaten the unity of the country.
This has been justified with the argument that genuine knowledge is attained using precisely the objective methods and logical discussion which come less naturally to women than to men.
I recall very clearly that the debates that we are hearing today started ten years ago in this House.
I would just like to point out that, although the direction we have taken is quite justified and correct, we should not place any artificial or unnecessary burdens on farmers and businesses, something which I am certain we can avoid.
Second revision of the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement (Cotonou Agreement) (
For example, the protection of freedom of expression and the definition of what constitutes a violation of freedom of expression differ markedly from one country to another.
I have been speaking only about the segregation of Roma children for four years.
That goes especially for President Barroso.
It should, and must, get better and better.
(GA) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Council is aware that the NDC (the National Democratic Conference) is seeking new elections and that the plans to organise talks on power-sharing in Swaziland have been postponed for a week.
This observation compels me to say that our reports are also very important.
Therefore, this will reassure many of them that Europe is acting to protect them from scam traders.
But it does not yet cover workers in other professions at risk, so we hope Member States could look at that.
In the coming days, a great many Austrian and European citizens will be driving through your country, where they will encounter a motorway toll system that is utterly discriminatory.
The next item is a debate on the Commission's communication relating to a maritime policy for the European Union.
First of all, I should like to thank Mr Mitchell and to commend his work.
(PL) I voted in favour of the report on the situation of women in rural areas of the European Union as this is a very important and interesting subject.
The second part talks about 'the right to food' in the Third World and the importance of prioritising food over fuel production.
The compromise is a good one and I very much hope that during the vote tomorrow it will meet with broad approval.
We have to stop now, because we have gone well beyond thirty minutes.
I must point out that I want nothing to do with this Member of Parliament.
The third question concerns the interpretation of Article 58, which provides for restrictions on the free movement of capital on grounds of public order.
Now the EU is to have its own right to have European police officers, funded from the EU budget and staffed by EU officials.
Mr President, it is not just the Members of this House who have been outraged by developments in Gaza.
It represents the highest aspirations for all of us on this planet and deserves all of our support.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, in recent years your policy, the fundamentalism of the marketplace, has dangerously increased inequalities and eroded the welfare state.
As for modulation, the issue of the rate of cofinancing for additional modulation is another element that must be included in the package.
As for the flag, which we have stolen from the Council of Europe, even its proponents do not know what it means.
With less public money, more will have to be done; hence, public money, both European and national, will have to be used more efficiently.
The Commission has already taken action on the first request in our oral question by postponing the decision initially scheduled for the end of April, for which it has my warm thanks.
First, we must manage to formulate a uniform European interpretation of war and the reasons for war, that is to say a common European memory.
In the twelve pages that you have completely filled, there is not a single reference to the IPCC Panel.
We now have the opportunity to make corrections so that incentives are improved.
The majority of Member States already have, in theory, measures in place to deal with the situation of irregular migration, and you would think that would signal an apparent commitment to action.
It is therefore not a matter of indifference how crimes are judged in a country that will be at the head of the democratic aspirations of all countries over a vast area of Europe.
In the face of this violation of the commitments formerly made by the junta, the opposition organised a demonstration, which was brutally repressed by the presidential guard.
Firstly, with regard to the lack of a signature from Václav Klaus, I am assuming that the constitutional court will make a positive judgment.
The Lisbon Treaty process in Ireland demonstrates that when we make the effort to bring people with us, they are prepared to respond to leadership.
The economic potential of the EU-27 is much greater than that of the EU-15, and it occupies a more serious position in the global economy.
If the quaestors did not give any such permission, I think that Cefic has clearly breached its undertakings as a lobbyist and should therefore have its access pass withdrawn or at least receive a harsh reprimand.
Regrettably, this extremely pernicious, misanthropic and mostly anti-Christian ideology continues to take its victims to this day and to have its representatives.
This is a reflection of the new reality in the Union and also of the linguistic needs of our citizens.
In committee it was generally agreed this was a good idea to avoid a group being held hostage by a Member threatening to leave and thereby instantly disbanding such a group.
I agree with some, but not all, of the points highlighted in the report and for this reason I have decided not to vote for the report as it stands.
In relation to agriculture, raised by Ms Schierhuber in particular: in Ireland, for example, 28% of our emissions come from agriculture.
The international community, including representatives of the EU, can offer a helping hand here.
I think now we have an opportunity to do it.
It is obvious that we are following this case closely, and I know that my colleague, Commissioner Kyprianou, will be meeting the committee in Parliament.
To a certain extent, it is true that we must increase employment rates, and it is true that we will need immigration in order to solve this demographic deficit, and it is also important that immigration be controlled and organised.
in writing. - (PL) Madam President, the internal market is a highly complex structure that has balanced the interests of the various groups dependent on it for many years in succession.
Indeed, it is the first time a Member State of the last enlargement has assumed this very important responsibility.
Citizens dealing with this type of problem on an individual basis feel extremely unhappy about it.
You yourself were often present during the trialogue negotiations.
(PL) Mr Šemeta, I am certain the Commission will be included in the process of negotiation over accession of the Union to the convention.
One-minute speeches on matters of political importance
The data provided by the Commission in the Green Paper 'Towards a new culture for urban mobility' clearly show that 60% of Europeans live in an urban environment, and that these areas generate a large percentage of European GDP.
I too have a dream; and that dream is that one day this Parliament has a single seat from which to operate and the Strasbourg circus will come to an end.
(HU) Mr President, I apologise that I did not sign up, I did not know.
I am pleased to note again that there is a reference to natural disasters which, unfortunately, have recurred more and more often in Europe and which cause damage of great proportions, leading to potentially tragic situations.
I welcome that, but I also note that all the parliaments have been bypassed in this matter.
We must continue to work on the other three spaces as well.
Cancellation of debt, expenditure on refugees, grants for foreign students constitute expenditure which should be excluded from development aid figures; and so I invite you to support the relevant amendments.
How would we have been able to find the funds otherwise, given our tight budgetary constraints?
That increases the chance of the mission succeeding but it also substantially increases its and our responsibility.
Mr President, like previous speakers, I, too, had an objection to the inclusion of paragraph 7.
It should also be about new challenges, for example climate change and high and volatile food, fuel and commodity prices in the light of the global economic downturn and even financial crisis.
Equal access to sources of supply is an important element of the Euratom Treaty, and this is ensured by the Supply Agency.
Unfortunately, some Member States - including my own - have not used the recent past to prepare a coherent energy strategy.
You could have democratised the EU with this Treaty.
We need common and transparent rules for Europe as a whole, and for the world.
For the Commission, however, there must be a reference indicator.
(PT) Vice-President Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, in 1998 the European Parliament rejected all the initiatives presented to it when consulted on matters of detail relating to Europol.
Therefore, this step by the European Union is welcomed as a good example to other third countries.
One of the most tragic consequences of the US intervention has been the exodus of sections of that community, driven out by terror and intimidation.
In addition, I ask the European Commission to allow the EUR 115 million left over unspent from the European Economic Recovery Plan to be allocated to the Smart Cities Initiative.
We are on our way, with the goal firmly in view.
I have three very specific points to make.
These traffic corridors are found all over Europe.
I myself took part in drawing up the alternative resolution, and it is perhaps apposite to mention why we set about drafting an alternative to Mr Graça Moura's highly commendable work.
This is particularly true in food and agriculture.
I call on the Commission - come to your senses, because what you are doing is not only anti-European, it is anti-humanitarian.
Your imperialist dogma of 'divide and rule' is well known.
I would not mix the Eastern Partnership with the challenges of employment.
A communist who had the guts to criticise the excesses of the regime in Cuba, he was, however, a great writer first and foremost.
First of all, I should like to make three points about accounting standards.
They have spoken of the millions of deaths and cases of rape and abuse against the civilian population.
I know that they are new to him, but I insist on a timetable.
However, I must stress that the Directive concerning postal services, which the European Parliament also adopted this year, addresses this problem too.
The real problem is that we have no real means to impose a status quo ante or to exert efficient pressure on a country like Russia to revise a certain policy.
Just as Commissioner Barrot said, the European Union must continue to stand up for children's rights.
During these negotiations, the European Union must show what it is doing to ensure that trade rules will help improve this situation in the future.
I abstained from voting on Mr Takkula's report on educating the children of migrants.
Even though we often do not think about it, we use chemicals every day.
The Members I have selected are Philip Bushill-Matthews and Silvia-Adriana Ţicău.
Earlier this year, the end of cabotage restrictions came into view.
Madam President, I am not exactly sure why we are having this debate at this particular time.
(EL) Mr President, apart from the pressure from financial quanta, the insecurity in the euro area ...
They also believe that we should continue to maintain quotas as a supply regulation mechanism that stabilises their activity.
Unfortunately, no risk assessment can be carried out in the deeply uncertain context in which the global economy now finds itself.
In the meantime, I am afraid that the financial and economic perspective is only one side of the coin.
For this reason, we must make it clear that the question of credibility is of great political importance.
Much remains to be done in this regard, however.
The suffix '-stan' means 'state' and Tajikistan is the last of the countries whose names end in '-stan' to be recognised as a state by us.
The financial crisis has had an impact on transport policy.
Therefore, we must talk specifically about the crimes which are being committed and renew our appeals.
The Committee on Petitions had three reasons for supporting the Ombudsman with the resolution that was adopted unanimously by the Committee.
We still have a situation whereby 80% of European resources are being used by 20% of companies, concentrated in the old Member States. This creates unequal conditions for the new Member States and discriminates against them.
We do not want additional immigration from third countries, not even from non-European candidate countries like Turkey, an Asiatic and Muslim country that we refuse to see joining the European Union.
I conveyed this message with some force to President Déby; this process had already begun through the monitoring committee.
It is imperative that this is included.
That is the game they are playing with this.
(SV) Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, the Lisbon Strategy is now coming out of a slow initial stage and is beginning to create optimism and will, which is exactly what we need.
We need to encourage and enable such cultural interaction for successful European integration.
My opinion is that the Commission should present the proposal, and we should not tell it how to present it.
You mentioned the wine reform - previously, we were taking a lot of low-quality wine out of the market, buying it into intervention and then making it into biofuel, which was absolutely the wrong way to go.
Lastly, I would like to point out that we share Parliament's views on the importance of alternative methods for resolving disputes concerning contracts concluded over the internet.
The greatest problem for consumers today is that it is difficult to get a dispute between different countries heard because there are no instances to resolve such cross-border disputes.
First is the idea that the fund can be used only for big companies.
There are, moreover, numerous examples which we could cite of countries in which the symbols of, and action by, communist parties are still banned, countries which belong to the European Union.
How can we negotiate bilaterally with the oppressive governments of Álvaro Uribe and Alan García and flout the opinion of other sovereign states, members of the Andean Community, Bolivia and Ecuador?
Because of my remit, I would like to thank Mr van Nistelrooij and Mr Cortés Lastra, in particular, for their reports.
It is also important for EU citizens' social standards to be preserved, for us to protect the socially deprived, as well as for competition not to be distorted and the environment to continue to be protected.
I would like to thank the ECON Committee and the rapporteur, Ms van den Burg, for their support.
(DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the last month, the Commission has presented its new EU Strategy 2020 as a continuation of the Lisbon goals and, among other things, has called for a more social Europe.
Setting aside these votes, which I support, I should like to point out that we are regulating matters here which should not be regulated by the European Parliament.
Today we had as many as fifteen requests and this is altering the normal procedure and the amount of time given to each Group to speak.
Membership of committees and delegations: see Minutes
It will most definitely have been noticed in Minsk and in other countries that Russia considers as its sphere of influence.
We will also discuss the global financial crisis and ways in which the world food situation can be addressed.
We also need to assess what kind of policy we want on refusal of entry.
The meeting also recalled the importance of making progress in the areas of justice and internal affairs, particularly in combating organised crime and corruption.
I do not understand why the Commission decided to change the old text on regulatory charges to 'any urban road'.
What we are now experiencing is the reality of the future of transport.
These definitely extend to services relating to sexual and reproductive health.
I must say that we Socialists have been at the forefront, right from the start, in reinforcing transparency and control and, as a result, democracy with regard to lobbyists.
We must of course also offer technical assistance, but product safety must constitute a major element in trading agreements with, for example, China.
In the meantime, the Council's work on the review of the Transparency Regulation will continue to be based on the proposal that the Commission tabled before Parliament in May 2008.
The report on the future of transport aims to support and develop an efficient and sustainable transport system in Europe.
I am frustrated by the fact that shortly before the completion of the ratification process, we are seeing an increasing number of blatant violations of the European ethos and of European law.
It is regrettable to lose the mandate of the Expert Group on Darfur, but this was unfortunately unavoidable in order to save that of the Special Representative on Sudan.
Poverty affects 80 million (20%) of Europeans, and 17% have such low incomes that they cannot meet their basic needs.
Actions must be analysed in a transparent and impartial way in relation to both sides in the conflict.
We shall therefore definitely support the proposal and recommendation.
In particular, the requirements concerning animal welfare should be imposed on all imports without exception.
This competitive position, along with the parallel import and parallel trade should, to my mind, be raised in the WTO, where matters of this kind are discussed.
Parliament represents the citizens, hence our great responsibility.
If large private companies were to participate in the activities of the Institute, would innovations be accessible to other market participants?
We all share the view that pressure must be brought to bear on the Council and we all find it regrettable that the Council has now been blocking clear country-of-origin marking for some years.
And that is highly important: in Israel and Palestine, when we speak about the Maghreb and when we speak about the countries of Eastern Europe.
I am delighted that we appear to have the support of the majority of this House for a comprehensive directive.
I am very angry, quite frankly, about the way this has been done.
I am going to start, Mr Barroso, with the structure of the Commission, because that is the most important thing as far as Parliament is concerned.
In fact, all countries benefit from globalisation: the developing countries, the newly industrialised countries and even those developing countries with an overextravagant government apparatus that taxpayers can no longer afford.
I wonder how you can talk about common values when, in a country like Mauritania, there is no religious freedom to speak of because, there, Islam has been dominant for well over a thousand years.
All of the scientists, the researchers, there were female.
Of course we support that ambition, but we are waiting to see how internal developments in Turkey will turn out.
Their reports are of high quality and I thank the two rapporteurs from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Mrs Jeleva and Mr Masiel.
These lines of credit were also utilised in recent years, so this is nothing new.
This exercise in enhanced cooperation has proved a good early example of the virtues of codecision, which I hope may enter into force on the full ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, hopefully as soon as possible.
President Obama also ended the use of 'enhanced' interrogation techniques by the CIA.
To put the Doha Round behind us and say that we cannot achieve global agreements on trade would, I believe, be a disaster that could undermine the whole of the global trade system.
I think that the basic idea is that it would make a contribution, so it is an economy that can overcome the current difficulties.
These funds have become more visible again in a time of financial crisis involving multiple banks and investment firms as they stepped in to provide much-needed capital injections to some of these firms.
I am very glad Commissioner Špidla announced that we can expect a report in 2010 on steps the Commission intends to take in order to make legislation more effective.
The challenges ahead of us are entirely new.
(PL) Mr President, the common energy policy is currently one of the greatest challenges facing the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - We are not the only ones who have taken up the fight against cartels.
Does that actually fall within the Commission's competence, and how does it relate to subsidiarity and proportionality?
Having said that, there are issues that we have to change and to improve.
Although a review of the procedures for written questions is needed, we consider that it is of the utmost importance to safeguard Members' independence and right to put questions to the other institutions regarding their decisions and responsibility.
Mr President, the benefits of trade and economic integration are evident, particularly in an increasingly globalised world.
The next item is the report by Mr Lyon, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the future of the common agricultural policy after 2013.
Generally speaking, we need to aim to move away from means of transport reliant on the use of fossil fuels to those based on renewable fuels.
Currently a gang which is sowing instability among Europe's neighbours can travel freely through Russian airports.
It is an acknowledged fact that using pesticides poses a threat to both human health and the environment.
We call on the workers to express their universal opposition to the EU and its anti-grassroots policy and to change the balance of power at political level through the forthcoming elections.
With permits being issued in this way, there is a risk that each Member State will set its own permit conditions and the internal market will be disrupted.
The Commission understands the need for coordinated action at EU level to avert a serious crisis for the industry, and to ensure that the problem is not simply displaced but really tackled head-on.
And his careful paper - because he wants to be promoted and not sacked - goes up the tree in his department, and officials who are busy doing other things say 'okay' and tick it.
One of the recitals now states that this is possible, and I hope, of course, that the Commission will bring forward a new proposal at a later date, as I believe this is necessary.
The ECB is only in charge of monetary policy.
I would be interested to hear whether the GMO debate plays a role, and to what extent it is being discussed, in that context.
Mr President, let me begin my thanking you and all the interpreters for your patience during this very long set of explanations of vote.
On both sides there has been a truly incomplete exercise in democracy.
I am pleased to see that in the Agriculture Council, you are making progress with the issue of improving the functioning of the food supply chain.
This Council is being held to ransom by the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, which is made up of countries which protect each other and which seek to provoke the fine state of Israel and to falsely accuse it.
The majority of Member States perceive these two processes as complementary and consider them to be parallel efforts leading to a common goal, namely an international legally binding instrument on cluster munitions.
We firmly denounce these prosecutions and we call on the Iranian authorities to bring them to an immediate end and to release all those taken into custody.
I have received five motions for resolution to wind up the debate tabled in accordance with Rule 115(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
We have to concentrate on identification or on possible falsification.
Finally, I would like to point out that the label now also benefits goods produced to last a long time and goods that can be re-used.
The Turkish Government told its own citizens when it took office that it is necessary to modernise Turkey.
Today, the negotiations have reached a critical stage.
Here, however, we have a problem: the production of statistics.
(SK) Western Europe likes to talk about the need to assist the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to overcome the crisis.
I welcome the report's firm commitment towards their membership perspective.
This report would meet both conditions if a proposal is accepted.
The main requirements for a successful decision-making process for this agreement are transparency, cooperation and the inclusion of Parliament.
This is a market of 500 million citizens in which small businesses, of which there are very many, citizens and consumers are not doing well.
Composition of committees and delegations: see Minutes
In Europe, one out of six people lives below the poverty threshold, a figure that does not include the statistics in Romania and Bulgaria.
According to the information received by the Council on the status of the SIS II project, a number of problems persist.
Pakistan is the most crucial country in terms of global security.
This is the great challenge for the European Union in this case: succeeding in communicating, mobilising and facilitating the link between European funds and the various projects which could be initiated in rural areas by women.
The report concluded that there had been positive development but also areas that needed improving.
(For the results and other details of the vote: see Minutes)
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted for the report by Mrs Niebler on the renewal of the EU/Russia agreement on scientific cooperation.
I believe that it has achieved a great deal of good.
That is the reason behind this solution, which I think makes a good deal of sense, namely to separate out the transport rules, which are easier to accept and, I hope, to implement.
But, Mr Mandelson, you also said that you are pleased with the speed at which this has all gone through.
The whole idea of this legislation is to bring safety to the food we eat, and, of course, what our animals eat is essential because we eat those animals.
Finally, I simply want to stress the concern about poverty and social exclusion, which seriously affect women.
You are indeed somewhat sceptical of this, as are all your colleagues.
Achieving these goals will also result in a safe society.
Secondly, the whole issue with regard to how we actually encourage - we all have the idea of balancing work and family life - greater participation within family life.
The last issue that I want to mention is the issue of observers, and whether we should have observers in advance of the 18 new Members taking their seats.
It considered that the goals of the EU could only be achieved in close cooperation with all Arctic partner countries, territories and communities, and also noted the intergovernmental cooperation in the region.
I want to say two things very quickly about the matter of the leadership, or the supposed leadership, of the European Union over climate change.
An additional EUR 60 million was made available to Romania and Bulgaria between 2004 and 2006, under the pre-accession instruments.
We have voted in favour, once again, of this annual motion for a resolution on the Lisbon Strategy to show our continued support for the underlying reform agenda.
This will enable correct assessment based on opinions from within the fishing industry as well as scientific opinions, and the compromise which is adopted will ensure the fair and equal management of fishing.
I would like to add that it defines our Community much more than business or geography.
But this must be approached with strict respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in a manner which is appropriate to an open, democratic and just society.
Mr President, the last time we held a debate after a tragedy in the Mediterranean was on 1 April.
Finally may I convey my warmest congratulations and thanks to Reino Paasilinna for excellent cooperation, and my congratulations on a superb report.
(LT) The Economic and Monetary Union is 10 years old.
What we are trying to do is allow consumers to switch bank accounts easily within Member States.
In that connection, I should also like to draw attention to the ban on entry into the United States by people with HIV.
Projects such as the extension of the Odessa-Brody pipeline to Gdańsk, or the Nabucco pipeline, are no longer very realistic as a result of the actions taken by Russian companies dominated by the special services.
Our undertaking, Commissioner, can and must be to prevent this country from swinging towards fundamentalism and a new authoritarian regime.
I should like to apologise to the other speakers if I have not responded to everybody.
To conclude, I would like to insist that access to medicines remains a priority for the Commission and I am willing to continue to work in a constructive spirit with Parliament on this matter in the future.
Instead, they are simply making fine-sounding declarations of intent and empty promises.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 22 October 2009.
It would be superfluous for me to repeat here the reasons that led to my vote of approval.
This issue was also discussed earlier today.
Negotiating a new agreement will therefore be difficult and painful.
The structural funds must be used swiftly and efficiently.
He wants to set up a small online company that will offer photo-framing services.
It is different in nature in the Mediterranean Neighbourhood compared with the Eastern European Neighbourhood, where many countries released from the Soviet area of influence are openly declaring a desire to accede to the European Community.
I therefore support this proposal, which aims to consolidate the existing structure, making it permanent and giving it an appropriate legal basis by defining its objectives, functions, structure and methods of financing.
I believe that something similar happened to the Barcelona Process: it was not finished, but it was abandoned - in part at least.
Using violence and persecution against his own people can only lead his country to more national trauma and suffering, and this we must not allow to happen.
John Monks, General Secretary of the European Trade Union Confederation, has also expressed concern that the social dimension of the Swedish Presidency has been given such low priority.
What I mean to say is that the issue here is essentially whether we are able to work together to flesh out the new territorial dimension objective laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Hungarians in Romania, the people I represent, are such a case.
(RO) We must ask ourselves what direction we want our education and research systems to go in.
Who is such a complicated procedure for mobilising Union resources supposed to help?
Therefore, I believe that this matter must be highlighted clearly when we review the provisions of the directive.
Mr Cashman has just said that we need to know who has made what decision and how in order to be able to establish accountability for political actions.
However, mankind ceased some time ago to be satisfied with merely basic living conditions; we have also been striving to attain the kind of social development which makes our lives easier.
This report is the first step in the right direction.
in writing. - I warmly welcome this initiative and the possibilities it affords to the many millions of Europeans predicted to be affected by cancer in the years to come.
I believe that the cooperation enjoyed with Mr Manders really was constructive and produced sound results of which we can be proud.
We support the rapporteur's positions on market instruments and risk management in terms of crises, epidemics, animal welfare and the environment, modulation and degressivity.
We also expect European solidarity if homes stay cold in Bulgaria or Hungary because Russia and Ukraine are arguing about gas again.
The Lisbon Treaty contains these same principle and they fully conform to Irish values.
Once the Lisbon Treaty enters into force, Parliament will automatically have codecision powers in matters under the third pillar.
That is why we must react to these new developments with a resolution.
I believe that it will allow us better to prepare for the future by addressing a whole host of bilateral and world issues of common interest in a more structured, more coherent and better coordinated framework.
Therefore, I support the proposal for an EU nuclear safety framework that will reinforce the independence of national regulators and ensure a high level of transparency on the safety of nuclear installations.
After the Hungarian Parliament ratified it in the dark, the European Parliament is approving a text it has not read.
At the same time, the world economy is threatened by a devastating financial crisis.
Only then shall we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance be able to support electromobility.
(DE) Mr President, I would like to endorse what Reinhard Bütikofer has said.
Given the very stringent requirements of the Mining Waste Directive and the absence of adequate alternatives today, a general ban on cyanide use for gold extraction does not, for the moment, seem appropriate.
I would like to mention or remind you of the importance that everything related to the internal market has in the European Union. I think that is obvious.
I welcomed this decision, and supported the report.
The lack of an MRL also prevents authorities from being able to establish a proper withdrawal period for a medicine.
With this Irish 'yes', we know that the Lisbon Treaty will be brought into effect; we know that, because it was the last hurdle.
EC/Mauritania Fisheries Partnership Agreement for the period 1 August 2008 to 31 July 2012 (debate)
What we need is a well-coordinated system of organ donation and transplantation.
More importantly, the Irish electorate have overwhelmingly declared that our future is with Europe, that Europe is good for Ireland and that Ireland has a positive contribution to make to the development of the Union.
Can I remind you that at the G20 Summit, with some resistance from some European leaders, you accepted that if there is a reason we are willing to do more to engage in having high economic growth?
I have been following with awe the tough contest for the title of European Capital of Culture 2013 between the four Slovak candidates of Košice, Martin, Nitra and Prešov.
It is too early at this stage to go into any details of appropriate actions to be taken on particular projects or areas of cooperation.
This is nothing other than the abuse of secrecy in order to protect those who have broken the law.
In essence, however, we first need to clarify three points.
However, I think that the transport infrastructure, primarily that for inland waterways, which includes the Danube, along with multimodality, are specific, viable methods of ensuring sustainable development and new jobs.
I think it, too, is an important body, which should be more active here, concerning the situation in Greece.
My party has also requested that we have a referendum on the EU Constitutional Treaty.
That is why I also do not agree with the idea that our approach is not balanced.
Failure to do so has far-reaching consequences.
In fact, if anything, the opposite is true.
Providing a proper legal basis and consequently enabling permanent funding of the Institute was my priority as draftsman of the committee asked for an opinion under the Committee on Legal Affairs.
This crisis has also shown that we have to strengthen the mechanisms for delivering ODA.
Its roots were in religious and civil dissent, in the sacrifices of people who were executed, in the suffering of unjustly imprisoned people and in the Pontificate of John Paul II.
I notice the Czech presidency states that it is doing all it can to enlarge the European Union and to admit Croatia.
This is a matter that affects thousands - if not hundreds of thousands - of businesses throughout Europe who are being misled and actually cheated out of their own money.
In the EU today we continue to see inadequate outlay on scientific research and academic education.
The High Representative is also Vice-President of the Commission and must be subject to everything here.
That must be stated plainly and the appropriate conclusions drawn.
This shows unequivocally that there is an increased awareness among our inhabitants that they can pursue their rights on a European level.
Otherwise, the developments in China may have an unfavourable impact on the overall developments in the political situation in Asia with subsequent impacts on the overall global economy and politics.
These young men did what many young men would do: they ordered a pizza from the local pizzeria, for three hours after that they were to board an aeroplane and fly to Afghanistan.
They called on the European Community to take more action, to solve the regional conflict with a view to implementing all international agreements, especially those providing for the retreat of Russian troops from Transnistria.
Secondly, we are withdrawing from the order of business Mrs Ţicãu's report on the energy performance of buildings, because it was not adopted in committee on Monday.
We are living in extraordinary times which require extraordinary measures.
We may indeed provide funding for these but they will not amount to a real resolution of the situation or an improvement in the lives of the inhabitants.
I would just like to highlight one aspect by mentioning the need for the Community Fisheries Control Agency to play a particularly important role, given its Community nature and its impartiality order.
The cohesion policy after 2013 must continue to make this vision a reality.
Today we awarded the Sakharov Prize to Hu Jia, who champions the causes of human rights and the environment in China.
The European Union actually needs to include the Black Sea region and, obviously, the Republic of Moldova on its list of political priorities.
The increased number of Member States has seriously complicated the process of transition, and migration between the Schengen Information System to the second generation Schengen Information System.
What we do want is to end the trade in animals that have been slaughtered inhumanely.
At present, Ireland and Malta are the only two countries in EU without a national transplant authority to maximise organ usage.
But today, Commissioner, reality, and Mr Stevenson explained this, is taking us in other directions.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report.
In connection with the danger which exists, Member States should be called upon to block access to Internet sites which contain child pornography.
It aims to make the European maritime space - or rather, that of the Member States - one of the safest in the world.
Mr Hammerstein, the open-sea transfer of oil is a very common practice in maritime transport.
Firstly, the introduction of biofuels should not result in us slackening the requirements for energy-efficient cars.
Furthermore, the Slovenian Presidency has asked, for procedural and official reasons, for the meeting to be postponed until the next plenary part-session in Belgium.
Pre-accession aid has the goal of enabling fundamental processes of change in these states and problems in target setting and implementation must be remedied.
I think that this problem that has come up, which must be examined and presented realistically, has been satisfactorily resolved.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to make three points.
This was made up of all parts of the Ukrainian political spectrum, such as the adviser to President Yushchenko, representatives of Naftogaz and the representative of the MFA.
The Commission would also like to point out that Structural Funds, and in particular the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund, could be used to cushion the social consequences of job losses.
Iceland has transferable quotas that become the property of the fishermen and their families and which can be transferred throughout generations.
This requires protocols for detection and courses of action at schools.
Limitation periods in cross-border disputes involving personal injuries and fatal accidents (vote)
Allow me just to congratulate all the rapporteurs for their extremely high-quality and useful reports.
The text also establishes satisfactory governance of the programmes.
Then, briefly with regard to external relations, can we have some read across with regard to external relations, energy and climate change - all of those issues?
The rate of return into education at pre-school age, for example, is higher than the rate of return from investing the same amounts in the longer term in financial institutions.
Not everything can serve as an excuse to increase the levels of intrusion into the private lives of members of the public.
in writing. - I enthusiastically voted in favour of the resolution and I am especially glad that the oral amendment by my colleague had been adopted, i.e. to include 'indigenous people' in the list of groups that need special attention.
A modern integrated infrastructure should therefore be developed, while retaining the principles of intermodality and interoperability.
in writing. - (BG) Continuing to reform the common agricultural policy (CAP) is important for allowing Europe to maintain its leading role in this sector.
It was, of course, after having my consent that she took the decision - namely the contacts she had with the German Government asking for clarification.
Some recent studies indicate that the ban on smoking in North America and Europe has led to a rapid decrease in certain serious health problems.
The European Union is very active in this respect, and will remain so.
So the first point I make is, please, can we ensure that the Council does not adopt in detail this proposal at its next meeting in June, because it is not ready to be adopted?
I think that we all need to remain faithful to the commitment that we have made.
These are the right choices, according to two criteria.
This great victory of the European socialists, supported by the unions, is a victory for all Europeans.
We think that we must proceed differently if we wish to make better use of our resources.
We shall therefore be opposing the request.
Never mind the consequences for the real economy and the people.
I think that the role of, and document on, adaptation are important.
In conclusion, the Commission is bound to make certain declarations which form part of the compromise agreed with the legislative institutions.
I think that the European Parliament today underestimates, as indeed do our national parliaments and national governments, the importance of education and culture.
First of all, we need simplified arrangements and less red tape.
However, it is not these issues we are debating today.
That is a disappointing outcome, particularly as we know that every year that we lose will, of course, result in us having to raise our efforts even further.
What did the international community do to prevent this form of terrorism?
This is not - and I will finish here because I have only a few seconds left - a ragbag report, even though mention is made of genital mutilation, the burkha and forced marriages.
If Captain Camara wants, even in the slightest, to be a Guinean Obama, then corruption and poverty in that country would have to be radically reduced.
While this recommendation is meant to be reassuring, while its aim is to ensure the health and safety of European workers and to enable them to reconcile family life ...
Finally, two projects will be financed to foster cooperation between marine science and maritime industries as well as a stronger integration between the different actors within the marine scientific community.
What were the main results of this Council?
I can understand that on formal grounds.
We would have done better to define clear principles and leave responsibility for implementing and developing these principles with the undertakings themselves.
Not only do these networks form a threat to peace in the country itself, they also put the safety of the whole of Europe in the balance.
Over the past year it is not only oil that has experienced a price shock: the cost of coal and gas is rising just as fast as oil, if not faster.
All too often, the sanctions policy is vague and flexible, swayed by the political contingencies of the most influential Member States or the commercial or geopolitical importance of the targeted entity.
in writing. - (RO) The EU enlargement has always been only a matter of time and of making political and economic systems compatible between the Member States.
Given that the Commission's proposal to finance the EIT suggests the reopening of the financial perspectives, we cannot support the report.
Yes, I think it is perfectly possible to debate good practice in relation to financial entities.
Unfortunately, time is running out - there are already only eight months left.
It is fair that extra assistance is provided to those countries that have reduced CO2 emissions by more than 20% in the period since 1990.
We will have failed in the eyes of countries that need us to succeed for them to have faith in their sustainable development.
This is why we must give our unconditional support to the Alliance for European Integration in the Republic of Moldova, as it represents the only chance for integrating it gradually, yet quickly, into the European family.
I also personally welcome the elimination of the requirement to use the funds only for low-income households, which I consider problematic because internal domestic rules define these in different ways.
(RO) I appreciate Mr. Tannock's report.
It is frankly most disappointing that in our view political posturing seems to have got in the way of addressing the real problem.
I think Mr Kallas is doing a very good job.
At the same time, the European Union is making every mistake it could make.
An animal that is stressed will produce a much poorer quality meat, and the suffering thus works its way right down the whole chain.
Where you do have my full support is where you commented on EDF funding for the African Peace Facility; no one can deny the evident links between development and security.
The rules that we are laying down here, and that will apply as standard to European cars from 2011, will lead to 35 000 fewer deaths and serious injuries a year on Europe's roads.
Once again, I would like to express my thanks to Parliament's negotiating team and, in particular, to the Chair of the Budget Committee, Mr Lamassoure, and to the rapporteurs for the 2010 budget, Mr Surján and Mr Maňka.
The last item to round off concerns LDCs that now benefit from 'Everything But Arms' and thus have complete and unlimited access to our markets.
I therefore support the technical proposals introduced by the rapporteur, Mr Cashman, to take into account the specificity of the Schengen Borders Code since it constitutes a development of the Schengen acquis.
(PL) Today is the anniversary of the outbreak of the Second World War.
Moreover, we must base our approach on science, knowledge and skills and not on emotions, however much we all care about this debate.
We are confident that our proposals can secure broad consensus in the House at the vote, so that the tangible outcome will indeed be more interoperability.
It is, of course, important that in preparing for a terrorist act the fight against criminal activity should not suffer.
We cannot allow that to happen if we really want to help change the eating habits of children, which is something that, unfortunately, is very much needed.
In terms of policy, we should primarily focus on their modernisation and development of the sector which includes all of the other logistic operations that are interconnected with ports.
It is also difficult for us to imagine how it was possible for millions of people in Ukraine, which was capable of feeding the whole of Europe, to die of starvation.
Continuous funding, for culture and professional and amateur sport, for example, gives individual Member States some justification for permitting gambling.
The EU proposal will ensure that books are only digitised with prior permission, and there will also be a serious search for orphan works.
As for the amendment of Regulation No 320/2006 on the restructuring regime, which is in any case the central aspect of the reform, my report proposes:
When President Obama said in Berlin last year that America has no better partner than Europe, he was not just making a statement of principle, but also inviting Europe to provide the proof.
(RO) As has already been emphasised in this Chamber, violence against women is really an extremely serious issue to which we do not always devote the appropriate attention.
Waiving the visa requirement for Serbia, Montenegro and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is a vitally important event for these countries as part of their process of catching up, while also reflecting the European Union's responsibility to the region.
At this point, I think we should make that clear once more.
This has the consequence of reducing the proportion of passive agricultural aid converted into active aid for rural development.
However, try as I might, I cannot reconcile it with current events. Developments in Turkey are preventing us from seeing what kind of future will emerge for that country with its inherent Asiatic traits.
As long as we guarantee effective aid, lives will be saved and poverty will be eradicated.
Concerning the point made on cod in the Baltic Sea, although this is not part of this cod recovery plan we did introduce a cod recovery plan in the Baltic Sea in 2007.
It is therefore excessive to focus this exclusively on developing countries, particularly if it is later specified that it is not allowed to be carried out in places such as the Far East.
I still offer a good bottle of wine for just one example of a law which can be approved under the Constitution and not under the Lisbon Treaty.
At the same time, many areas are short-staffed.
Because we see that even with a quota system in place, we have not been able to maintain high prices and the structural changes in the dairy sector have taken place anyway.
This reconstruction must be placed under the auspices of the United Nations, so that the Haitian people can recover their economic and political sovereignty.
I also share the Prime Minister's point of view that security is indivisible and it should be individual, social, national and international for all.
The humanitarian situation in Gaza breaches all the standards of human dignity.
Refusal of consent will bring to an end the interim agreement, including the significant data protection safeguard it contains.
They are both gender-specific diseases, difficult to diagnose and for which few resources are available for research and treatment.
I also appreciate the improved cooperation between Member States in terms of respect for national health systems and I hope this opportunity for Europeans will be enhanced by the provision of proper information, which is something they need.
The directive itself and, hence, its amendment, are supplementary in nature and only apply to vehicles over 3.5 tonnes, like other laws applicable to road transport activities.
Thank you once again and, as I was saying, we are waiting for the revision of the Biocides Directive as soon as possible.
In addition, I believe that this whole area must remain an exclusive competence of the Member States.
The importance of having common minimum standards which are globally applied really goes without saying.
This means that the Lisbon Treaty will enter into force on 1 December.
It is for that reason that I voted against the report.
To try to put out a fire with gasoline means that one either intentionally wants a larger fire or that one is not aware of what one is doing.
Seldom has such cooperation been so obviously of benefit to the whole world.
When it comes to reprimanding citizens for their actions, Member States have been willing to concede sovereignty.
Unfortunately, we can also see that it is of course unsatisfactory that the control systems are being labelled as ineffective in all cases investigated by the Court of Auditors.
It is simple common sense to enforce measures for energy efficiency in order to gain the optimal use of means of production.
Finally, if you will allow me to finish, Madam President: how can we make the work of our Parliament immediately available to the public, which I believe does not always have access to the internet?
I do have, however, a simple question: what is the real responsibility, influence and impact of agriculture on climate change?
I endorse what has been said on the need for diversity in the reflection group set up by the Commission.
In this sense, the Presidency would like to recall that in December last year the European Council decided an overall European economic recovery plan to address, inter alia, employment issues resulting from the financial crisis.
The more ambitious 30-30-30 target, which envisages achieving a 30% threshold in all three areas, would definitely incur costs which are excessively high for my country.
I would like to point out that the European Parliament and the Malaysian Parliament enjoy regular and fruitful contact.
Legislative and work programme of the Commission for 2007 (motions for resolutions tabled): see Minutes
That will put enough pressure on the 27 Member States to concentrate massively on wind, solar, water and biomass.
Other than declarations of intent, very little has happened so far in terms of the regulation of the financial markets.
This proposal is being championed by the Internet Watch Foundation based in Oakington in Cambridgeshire in my constituency.
Mr President, it is amazing that it has taken so long to attempt to pass legislation to give the arm of traffic law the potential to cross EU Member State borders in order to save lives.
With this report we are supporting one of the most ambitious goals of the Commission, that we reduce the burden of cancer by 15% over a period of ten years.
Thank you very much for your strong support on this issue.
Its idea of democratic dialogue is only one way: the EU does not listen to what people have to say and only tells them what they can think and how they can vote.
All that is required - I know it is quite technical - is a will for better cooperation between Member States.
I am delighted that you have returned from Japan safe and sound.
I also believe that it would have been better to deal with this topic in a post-electoral period and not a pre-electoral period as at present.
This programme deserves the European Commission's full attention to ensure its continuation and expansion.
Last month, many EU States and the USA - ignoring international law and citing humanitarian interventionism - unilaterally recognised the independence of Kosovo, dismembering Serbia.
Even the rule that members who took part in the preparation of the report can present their comments in writing is proving problematic.
(DE) Mr President, my question relates to the compiled text, in other words, the consolidated version.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have the sad duty of informing you of the deaths of a fellow Member and a former fellow Member.
in writing. - I welcome Mr Rubig's proposals to support research and development performing SMEs.
Today we need to make very clear that Russia's interpretation of its UN peacekeeping role is absolutely unacceptable.
The critics should understand that there are problems in the existing system.
Most of them are peaceful followers of Islam.
I think this is a very bad development.
Social responsibility of subcontracting undertakings in production chains (
We have ignored the preliminary warning signs out of a misconceived tolerance and refused to accept what was an explosive momentum.
In this half of 2007, the European Union has secured the adoption, in the United Nations, of a resolution on a moratorium on the death penalty.
Let us revise the implementing provisions on liquids as quickly as possible, and let us replace them with more and better technology and with better cooperation between the security services.
Much has been said about the many benefits the Lisbon Treaty will bring.
I felt - and still do today - that the objectives were set rather low, but we have at least made a start.
This preposterous utterance by a fellow Member is part of a dishonourable tradition in this House of disregard for the will of European peoples, which constitutes a major threat to the foundations of democracy.
Twelve of them die every day because they have waited too long.
Similar help must be available for the new Member States.
Their alleged crimes were committed when they were 13-17 years old.
I would like to summarise what we are now proposing in this report.
Concerning the ICC, this Parliament has already received the Prosecutor, Mr Moreno-Ocampo, and the President of the Court, Mr Song.
Every year 3.2 million Europeans are diagnosed with cancer, but this burden is not spread equally across the Union.
(PL) Mr President, in my opinion, there are two keys to the equal rights of women and men.
We reject in principle the genetic modification of humans, animals or plants until it is demonstrated at every level that it has absolutely no repercussions for citizens' health.
In this progressively unifying Europe, do the Germans wish to resurrect the phantoms and demons of 20th century politics, i.e. unions and pacts that led to wars, crimes, the Holocaust and the division of Europe?
Copenhagen should also help to change the global energy paradigm by supporting renewable energy and energy conservation.
in writing. - (SV) All EU institutions are already bound by international law guaranteeing protection of human rights.
in writing. - I welcome this report, which should reduce the burden on electoral authorities and individuals as regards the right to vote in the European elections.
We need to find the most environmentally friendly propulsion technology for vehicles.
This agreement creates a mechanism for ensuring cooperation between the contracting parties in the case of accidents causing pollution and obliges them to devise and implement their own emergency structures and plans.
How can the Commission justify the strict message it is sending out to people, to the extent that they should learn to live with continuously increasing fuel prices?
As they strive to obtain reliable information from European institutions, the representatives of local and regional authorities also supply the most recent data on the situation in their regions.
We must go back to these simple, sensible actions and continue to encourage research into better housing.
That is the peculiarity, but the matter of the resolution is entirely a matter for the European Parliament, not a matter for me.
Rather it should be a select group of eminent scholars, outstanding entrepreneurs, former diplomats and politicians.
In other words, the debtor has had time to hide his assets.
Measures are urgently needed to protect pregnant women and women who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, and it is essential to ensure that their rights are respected.
How do you get common standards of delivery across the EU amongst the Member States, with some, like mine, the United Kingdom, ever-reluctant to take any financial assistance steps, even when they are permitted?
But because of its own province named Macedonia, Greece objects to the use of the name 'Republic of Macedonia' on its own, insisting instead on 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia', or FYROM.
It is in our hands to create the process and structures that will give peace roots, help it grow and sustain it into the future.
We have not been sufficiently determined to adopt the euro; that is one of the greatest mistakes we have made in the euro integration process, something that is acutely evident today in the circumstances of the financial crisis.
(DE) Mr President, one in seven Europeans belongs to an ethnic minority.
The reconstruction efforts are only just getting under way, as you told us.
The level of restrictions on the spontaneity of market processes and the level of political regulation over the economy are constantly increasing.
This report should have served that purpose, but it does not.
I have never met anyone and I have particularly never met an economist or economic theorist who at any time has said that it is absolutely vital to doggedly maintain this kind of configuration.
The objective of the proposal is to provide acceptable housing conditions within the framework of an integrated approach.
A shortage of food creates hunger, but one man's hunger is another man's profit.
I would therefore ask you to try and look at the situation from the point of view of South Africa's difficulties.
The nationalist ideology of the Ukrainian UPA, which colluded with the Nazis, resulted in the ethnic cleansing of Poles.
I therefore voted in favour of this report, which is supported by a European Commission Communication that puts forward a number of proposals, the majority of which we agree with.
Finally, have the two governments been called on to take action to support the victims?
These are rather general, rather violent, and rather boorish opinions.
In the interests of transparency, I consider it essential that the European Parliament be able to verify the accounts and analyse in detail the implementation of the Union budget.
Naturally, I also agree with the Commission that the enlargement of the European Union to 27 Member States and the financial regulation adopted for the Agency demand new, modernised and improved statutes for the Euratom Supply Agency.
(NL) Madam President, my original speaking time was unfairly cut short as it approached the two-and-a-half-minute limit, but the conclusion of my argument was that you cannot create change through foreign interventions or other forms of military violence.
We fully respect each Member State's right to decide for itself whether to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon.
But what there has not been is fully developed two-way scientific cooperation between Africa and the EU.
Many weapons are in circulation in Kyrgyzstan, a small country with just 5.3 million inhabitants, and the only country in the world to house both a US and a Russian military base.
The point is that the political system must - of course always, but especially in such times - create outlets for restoring citizens' confidence in the administration, the state and unions.
As we don't want to support this brain drain, we voted in favour of this amendment.
For the 2020 strategy to be more effective, the format needs to be changed into something completely different.
In a few days the Commission will present its regular progress report on Turkey's accession process.
Allowing the Azores to export relatively small quantities of sugar to the EU has to be a good decision for the economic future of that particular region.
Lastly, there is another very weak point: the document contains no organisational proposal for world water management.
Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the Espoo Convention has not been ratified by Russia.
This has never been raised so clearly before, but we do have to address it once and for all.
I know many families who have disabled relatives and carry out this demanding work with great courage despite the obstacles they constantly have to overcome.
Furthermore, is the state, or public ownership, the sole player in water policy?
I say this with all the respect I have for a country that has voted 'no'.
- (DE) Commissioner, you know my position - that Croatia should have become a Member long ago, if justice prevailed.
In addition, more should be done to better adjust healthcare to patients' needs.
However, these are just a few words about the Council's activities and its approach to this serious problem.
(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you too have heard that there are no longer refuse crises in Campania.
I voted in favour of the Jensen report, which provides a comprehensive policy framework and defines actions for the coordinated deployment of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITSs) at EU level.
There will be a debate on this at the next part-session of the European Parliament, on 16 June 2010.
As I stressed earlier, the first-reading agreement on the proposal in the area of applicable law has an impact on the other proposal in the area of family law, given that the two texts are largely identical.
(DE) Mr President, for the same reasons that I gave in the case of the Jeggle report, I and my CSU colleagues voted against Lutz Goepel's report.
Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Lambrinidis and everyone else in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs who has made this such a constructive and well thought-out report.
I will end with the English expression: "I will miss you all" or, in Portuguese: "Já sinto saudades”.
Since there is now a discussion inside the European Union between different Member States about what the interest rate applicable to the bilateral loans should be, that even increased yesterday to 400 base points, which is 4%.
We look forward to free and fair elections when conditions permit.
The 2003 and 2004 reforms were important stages in the reformation of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
In this respect, the persecution of Mrs Shirin Ebadi is a very serious matter, and I can also say the same about the situation of the six students which was mentioned earlier.
How can we continue to hold up negotiations at the World Trade Organisation because we will not move sufficiently, because of the common agricultural policy?
This is the man whose party Mr Mölzer belongs to and whom he works closely with.
I would also like to point out that, according to FAO estimates, discards within Community waters are around one million tonnes.
This is, to my mind, a complete anomaly.
This gives me the opportunity to welcome to the Chamber Mr Tashi Wangdi, the representative of His Holiness, the Dalai Lama.
We have a big political project - the enlargement of the European Union - and we have taken on new officials.
However, we feel that it is extremely regrettable - though unfortunately not particularly surprising - that the European Parliament is once again using a disaster to slowly but surely advance its position.
It is also an untypical Islamic country and the victim of many bloodless coups d'état.
I hope that the Council will assist the ailing sheep sector in its deliberations of tomorrow and today.
The end of the line for Europe is also apparent in the negotiations at the WTO and in the story regularly sold to us claiming that the EU will protect us from globalisation.
We must carry on with regime change!
In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I would particularly like to state and be very clear that in the report I am definitely not recommending any new legislation in this area, neither at EU nor at national level.
The facts show that the European Union's relations with Mercosur and Brazil respectively are already condemned to go at different speeds.
In this major effort, I continue to count on your strong support.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for decades now, the European Union's common fisheries policy has controlled fishing within the Community and in the territorial waters of third countries.
I have said it before and I say it again: apart from liquidity, we need also to inject credibility into the current economic situation.
We have taken decisions like that of yesterday on implementing rules simplifying the use of analysis files, and an explosives database is to be set up.
Hundreds of young people die every day for the simple reason that they don't have access to this register.
This may be related to policies that I was recently involved in in Belgium.
According to the teachings of our faith, I call on Jerzy Buzek, the Subcommittee on Human Rights and the European Commission to ...
Obviously the exact timescales and contents will be decided by the next Commission.
It was originally proposed for 11 September but, given the tragedy that occurred on that day, Parliament voted for it to be on 11 March.
I too am of the opinion that we should continue the One China policy to achieve the cohesion of China as a unified state, and that we do not want to jeopardise any of this.
It goes to the heart of what used to be described as the common values we share.
Social policy would no longer be able to benefit from European contributions to education and employment policy.
You have tried to restrict, impede and ruin it.
The expectation and need is for work to start immediately by the Commission Delegations in Yerevan and Baku.
The precautionary principle at the heart of the approach is one I strongly support.
Once again, the anticipated growth of road freight transport will test us to the utmost.
The Commission is in favour of developing microcredit and microfinance institutions more generally.
Both prices thus appear to be descending unstoppably towards the intervention levels.
It is progress that Turkey and Armenia have agreed to improve mutual relations.
Only last week I was in Rabat for talks, at which I also initiated further progress on the joint reflection process we began in July with a view to meeting Morocco's request for advanced status in the ENP framework.
In terms of political will, we must work harder to achieve more consistency.
Only clear and in particular, transparent criteria will provide the citizens with the required information before submitting the visa applications.
The fund industry in particular is always citing costly overregulation and refuses to extend its transparency and liability rules.
Why is it almost taboo to discuss a decent investment policy?
Each country should implement measures to protect against aggressive exports by systematically checking and monitoring imported goods and resorting to safeguard clauses whenever necessary.
On 1 October, Dr Frederick Toben was arrested at Heathrow Airport on a European arrest warrant issued in Germany for alleged xenophobic crimes committed on the Internet.
That is, we should intervene on the causes, not the effects.
They are doing an excellent job of staff training, as Mr Marinescu has explained, in the RABIT exercises and in identifying false travel documents.
However, it is also important to look into some of the reasons: the aggressive language, xenophobic language and nationalistic language that were part of the build-up to this conflict.
It became apparent in January, particularly in Slovakia and Bulgaria, but also in a number of other countries.
(DA) Mr President, we are in the midst of a European election campaign - an election campaign in which we have to forge a closer relationship with European citizens.
Finally, we also successfully argued that economic crises such as we are experiencing now can also be cited as grounds for extending the term of contracts.
We expect European harmonisation here and we expect Europe to set out best practices.
In the end, this is quite acceptable.
Thank you very much, Madam President, for your licence.
What I said to Mr Farage two months ago I say, again, today: speeches of this kind, which make personal attacks on particular people, are not acceptable in the European Parliament.
It is, I presume, about budget and about money, ultimately.
That is the major opportunity which this directive offers.
I am very glad that this legislation would provide a solution which would safeguard human health and safety but also preserve small-scale tourism entrepreneurship and the use of the method to protect biodiversity.
I am very grateful to Parliament for understanding the necessity for minor changes and I am looking forward to our having a very broad and strong debate on new outlines for the trans-European transport network in the months to come.
A country must be rewarded if it undertakes to promote and respect human rights by signing specific economic, trade and financial agreements.
And what can be said of the Member States that refuse to endorse the Goldstone report?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is an original sin in the subject that we are debating this evening, and that is the secrecy with which the negotiations have been carried out up to now.
This is a necessary decision and it will help Member States and FRONTEX to manage our external sea borders more efficiently.
author. - (NL) Mr President, the military regime in Burma tries to give the impression that it is maintaining a good policy and important national values against a hostile outside world that is threatening those positive values.
The ongoing projects in Cuba benefit the population directly by addressing their basic needs, through support for rehabilitation and reconstruction after the hurricanes, food security and adaptation to climate change.
The Commission is working closely with the Presidency, the Member States and the contractors to implement the guidelines laid down in the conclusions of the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 4 and 5 June.
The problem in the Laval case is that the market takes precedence over workers' rights.
There is territorial integrity and there is sovereignty, and this is what we clearly say of Georgia.
That committee has very many legislative tasks under the codecision, or ordinary legislative, procedure.
It does not exactly trip off the tongue, does it?
The European Union has a lot to gain from a closer partnership with Brazil in order to progress on global issues of common concern.
Those who argue in favour of this say that we will otherwise have problems with social dumping in the EU.
Europe must act now to avoid future repetitions of this type of situation.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on employees' participation in companies with a European statute.
The continued work of the Tribunal is needed, if only because of the fact that many criminals remain at large, and a significant number of cases still require reliable examination.
We would remind you that this is an industry that has been struggling through serious difficulties in Portugal too, particularly in municipalities where it has an especially large presence, such as Paredes and Paços de Ferreira.
My question is: would it not be possible to implement aid policies for developing countries in conjunction with family planning policies, possibly through the NGO system?
Mr President, I voted in favour of this resolution and report, but I have some concerns.
The report also calls on the Commission to consider labelling which would give consumers access to information on the social and environmental manufacturing conditions of the products they buy.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, as you have recalled, this structural crisis is both deep and enduring.
Populist Ecuador is also making noises now, joining Mercosur in spite of joining the anti-US, Venezuelan-led Bolivarian Alternative for the Americas (ALBA) trade initiative.
Along with the right to silence, these mechanisms must only be integrated at the individual's request and not as a standard production feature.
Finally, I would particularly stress the fact that contracts of indeterminate length must be the rule, and that flexicurity cannot function without strong social protection.
Port State control must meet a suitable standard in order to render controls more uniform in all EU ports.
We are talking about sustainability in the social sense.
in writing. - I supported the report on a European youth strategy as I believe it will prove vital in getting young people into full-time employment over the coming years.
During this debate we have focused on the death penalty.
These range from publishing an on-line database of financial education provision and research in the EU, to an enhancement of the existing Dolceta on-line educational tool to help teachers incorporate financial matters into the school curriculum.
In case some people do not trust the Council's word, and they would be within their rights not to, they should remember that the treaty forces us to do things differently.
That means we should not measure the growth and jobs policy we have today by the objectives that were set out in the year 2000 and that we know cannot be achieved.
It is not enough to say that human rights work is taking place and that things are improving.
I continue to be very concerned about the conditions in which these elections are held and the potential for this to lead to a critical statement from the EOM if steps are not urgently taken to address these concerns.
As the institutional framework does not allow this, we must take advantage of every possibility to reinforce Eurojust, on the basis of established law and without delay.
There is a momentum to finalise the process of postal reform.
This Parliament agreed to interrupt the procedure of first reading.
In addition, the European Commission has prepared a proposal to extend Member States' options for applying a reduced VAT rate.
Secondly, not only retail investors but also professional providers and institutional investors should be able to benefit fully from a single European market.
We promise that we will help Bangladesh on the path to democracy and there must be a will on the part of the government.
The reactions to your proposal for economic governance indicate that this is exactly where the problem lies.
It did not achieve everything it set out to, but I am still positive.
They are almost characteristic of all large-scale international events.
Third, a number of technical/nomenclature changes will be made, mainly as regards pilot projects and preparatory actions.
I fully agree with the rapporteur on this.
Changes in global food markets force us to think seriously about our food security strategy, or perhaps even rethink it entirely.
Major natural disaster in the autonomous region of Madeira (debate)
The national governments, local authorities, social partners, and all the stakeholders in Europe, are all trying to find solutions to the consequences of unemployment.
(HU) President of the Commission, according to European Commission Regulation No 800/2008, wage subsidies for people with disabilities were reduced to 75% of the maximum amount.
All three components must be equally to the fore of any action we take.
I am convinced that we can reach the goals set out in the EU's climate and energy package.
It improves the quality of public services, but most of all it opens up opportunities for industry to take the lead in international markets.
If we can find those solutions of solidarity and responsibility outside the euro area, I think it is quite obvious that we should also find them in the euro area.
There are strong indications that Georgia and Russia were recently on the brink of armed conflict.
This EU mission will have a robust use-of-force mandate, with reference to Chapter VII of the UN Charter, and troops should be encouraged to invoke it.
This was a visit coordinated by the office of the European Commission in Khartoum.
I believe that we are in full agreement on this matter.
Concern must be aroused by the fact that in several countries of the EU, including Poland, sentences imposed for crimes of a sexual nature are very lenient and, in addition, these sentences are often suspended.
It is they who are guilty of not listening to the peoples of Europe.
Obviously there are certain areas where more resolute action is needed.
I am talking, obviously, about the largest Portuguese-speaking country in the world: Brazil.
This legislation will also ensure that every household in the EU will be fitted with so-called 'smart meters' by 2022.
There is an intellectual tendency to compare Kosovo to Ossetia, with which I really cannot agree.
In our capacity of MEPs, we believe that the Kosovo Regional Assembly has no powers to adopt an act of independence and therefore we consider the separatist government consisting of proven drug traffickers and war criminals to be illegitimate.
Under Plan D (democracy, dialogue, debate), we need to show the citizens that the European Union and its institutions are transparent and are serving the citizens.
As a result, however, of that agreement which some criticised and others supported, we can now tell our American friends very clearly that it is not possible to go beyond the European PNR agreement.
(FI) Mr President, the past year has been one of the most tragic for forest fires.
Common organisation of agricultural markets and specific provisions for certain agricultural products as regards the national quotas for milk (
Deserts get more energy from the sun in six hours than humankind uses in a year.
As you know, Eurocontrol, at our initiative, convened a telephone conference on Monday morning and the Commission participated actively yesterday afternoon in an extraordinary Council of Transport Ministers.
At the same time, the report obliges the European food industry to introduce some clarity into mandatory labelling, as well as the labelling and presentation of the nutritional value of foods.
Approval of the minutes of the previous sitting: see Minutes
The other reason is that the European Union intends to use this resolution to assume powers which it does not have.
In addition, if this policy were to be implemented in Poland, my country would lose more than all it has hitherto received in the form of direct payments, indirect subsidies and grants, and there would still be more to pay.
If there is no alternative, Council, Commission and Parliament might in the last resort look at the possibility of bilateral rather than multilateral arrangements.
By doing so, it underlined once again the importance of a preventative approach to these phenomena.
But well-managed borders should not mean the inhumane treatment of migrants or negligence of the need to respect refugee law by giving access to an asylum determination procedure.
Separation and divorce also disrupt family finances to the detriment of children.
We do not agree that we do not need to revisit the guidelines and to revise them.
The crisis in Georgia and the gas crisis highlighted to us that we cannot continually face threats from the east which target international stability and our energy security.
I am equally appalled that the Greens should disagree and promote deletion of sensible wording covering tolerance of prostitution, where it is clear much violence against women occurs.
Mr President, I am going to speak on behalf of the rapporteur, Mrs Doyle.
The behaviour of certain Members of this House in shouting down representatives of Parliament, the Commission and the Council during the signing ceremony was intolerable and must not be tolerated.
The point is that they are often not transparent enough in their investment strategy and intentions, and I hope that the Commission will focus on this.
Last weekend, I was again involved in talks from which it became very clear that assurances from the Commission must be forthcoming, which is entirely in agreement with the assurances which the Commissioner provided in the case of the SADC.
The logic behind our draft general budget is quite simple.
It, too, will hold a presidential election and its people will undoubtedly miss the visionary leadership of Álvaro Uribe.
It is therefore very important to us all across the group divide that the Commission take them on board.
Unfortunately positive trends in public spending on education generally have staggered.
I think that we in Germany would need a north/south and an east/west corridor.
This apparently very technical subject is of great importance to the aviation industry and happens to be very complex; therefore, it would have a significant impact on the development of new technologies and their implementation in the aviation industry.
Many of the same concerns came up in Ireland as were raised previously in France and in the Netherlands.
Commissioner, the mountains need you to act.
If Europe is not ambitious here, I am very much afraid that we will lose the growing markets of this century to our competitors.
However, in my opinion, we have other things to do here.
Amendment 990: + EUR 1.53m on line 16 03 04, commitment appropriations only;
It has been very gratifying for me to hear how well disposed the Council is and the wise words of compromise and also clarification from Vice-President Frattini.
A few weeks ago, the President vetoed an act prohibiting discrimination, saying it was superfluous.
However, allow me to tone down the enthusiasm that some have for this package.
I think that to reach a first-reading agreement is really a good confirmation of this support.
Greece's recent unrest is clearly linked to unemployment, resulting from an overvalued euro.
The IMF is making available large amounts of financing in support of comprehensive stabilisation programmes.
We firmly believe that we are making progress together on social Europe.
You have the power and the responsibility to control speaking time and I'm asking that you do so in the future.
Would you ask the US now who the inmates are?
In that way, every Member State can have its own clear set of procedures.
If Copenhagen is not a complete success, let us not cry wolf and start naming and shaming, but let us set out a clear process and time path in order to come to a result.
The Gospel story about the mote and the log often comes to mind in this context.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament joint resolution on the Danube, proposing that a European strategy be drawn up for this region as a matter of the utmost urgency.
The current pronouncements about the Union's unity with regard to Russia, the emphasis placed on the Eastern partnership and the other statements made are certainly encouraging.
In the negotiation process with Turkey, civil rights were very clearly placed on the agenda.
The second major challenge that we face is the renewal of the EIB's external mandates.
Less protection for vested interests is the key for the EU to avoid sinking into irrelevance on the world stage.
As the Commissioner has said, China is now Africa's third most important trading partner.
Subject: Supplementary pensions and mobility across the EU
Dependence on a single supplier with a penchant for using energy supply for political purposes is quite dangerous to both energy security and the general security of the EU.
I hope that, during this programme, the Erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs will also continue.
As liberals, we believe that the creation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is a positive move.
In the Washington meeting, there will be the opportunity formally to exchange the instruments of ratification of the extradition and mutual legal assistance agreements so that they can enter into force in early 2010.
Liberalisation, competition and unbundling of ownership will not automatically lead to a reduction in prices.
The UK weather means pilots need more of an IMC rating than others.
Such agreements already exist in the case of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
It is clear that the Euro Zone has to provide a strong and coordinated response to the economic crisis.
I believe that it is essential that young people in the Western Balkans see themselves as Europeans, because it is in a European context that the solution to the future of the area lies.
At the beginning of this month we found out that Son Jong Nam was tortured to death in a North Korean prison for spreading the gospel, the good news, to his fellow countrymen and women.
Texts of agreements forwarded by the Council: see Minutes
Nevertheless, it is our job to show the citizens that we take their concerns seriously and, in my opinion, this also includes the Commission attaching sufficient importance to this issue.
He said: 'The United States may have the most powerful army in the world, China may sell cheaper goods, but only Europe has a model that can serve as an inspiration to the rest of the world'.
At the same time, it should be remembered that we do not give preferential treatment to imports in the implementation and disadvantage national or European production.
These issues have been raised again and again, but never thought through to the end, let alone moulded into political concepts.
(DE) Mr President, when we talk about Europe 2020, then we are, first and foremost, talking about the future of our continent: Where do we want to go?
With regard to infrastructure, the relevant projects are at different stages of development.
The grounds given for requesting data in bulk - that it is technically impossible to do things any more precisely - strikes me as a strange argument.
This partnership will establish permanent, direct contact between the European bodies and Roma civil society.
After all, servers putting out harmful material may be located in any country.
I support the resolution that we will be voting on tomorrow.
A total of 520 amendments have been tabled in the eight committees.
As I start my first weeks in this job, I say to you very clearly: I hear what you say.
(ES) Madam President, I am going to talk about tourism, a fundamental sector for the Canary Islands, which receive around 12 million tourists per year.
I am always sensitive to the imposition of too many conditions and excessive red tape on recipients of assistance, and that goes for Member States right down to SMEs and individuals.
Terrorism is a direct attack on freedom, human rights and democracy.
It is unfortunate that the Committee's reports are still very much fixated on intentions.
However, Mr Barroso has failed to show commitment in putting forward proposals of importance to the S&D Group - for example, a strengthening of the Posted Workers Directive, a directive of vital importance for the protection of Welsh workers.
Energy market predictability must be ensured through agreements with China, India and Brazil and a partnership should be established with the US Government.
We need to take a dynamic and imaginative look at the tools at our disposal - to look at what will have a real impact in the short, medium and long term.
(HU) Madam President, one of the key topics at the forthcoming Copenhagen climate summit may be forest management.
The problem stems from the fact that customs duties are 2 000 years old and date back to ancient Rome, to Rome tolls.
We in the European Union must be to the forefront in supporting volunteerism in sport.
But I have a number of concerns about the Commission proposal.
Over the last 45 years it has remained stable, with only a small fall-off of 14%.
Madam President, Tibet and its cultural heritage is our common treasure.
I therefore hope that, tomorrow, we will be able to adopt this resolution by the Committee on International Trade by a large majority.
I do not know whether this will amuse us enough before the elections, but at least it is a contribution which we are bringing to this important issue.
In the EU, you have the feeling that the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing.
The report anticipates Ukrainian entry to the EU.
Thus we currently have no way of delaying or declining this accession.
Still only 30% of the MEPs are women and only 9 MEPs are non-white.
At the moment, this is much more of a mirage than a realistic plan.
in writing. - (PT) The common fisheries policy, which was last revised in 2002, is not yet sufficient to weather the vicissitudes of this sensitive sector.
We need to look at the way in which European elections are organised.
They would create further insecurity, not more security.
The various political priorities indicated by the European Commission, Madam Vice-President, include communication.
The money saved as a result could be made available to programmes conducted by producers' organisations.
What the United States and the European Union, as well as Member States, are trying to do now, is to lay the foundations for a new infrastructure: the global financial infrastructure.
Nor has notice been given to the Slovenian owners of the plots of land on which it is intended to erect the crossing.
Obsessive deregulation and privatisation of public services will equally end in tears.
Unfortunately, there are still no European programs and funds designed for improving the situation of children.
What this is about is getting poor countries to change their social institutions in order really to make development possible in these areas.
The Lobo Antunes family has given us not only a good Secretary of State, but also a distinguished writer who has written an interesting novel entitled The Splendour of Portugal, a line from the national anthem.
However, the fact that the transposition of the three directives included in the package caused serious problems for 21 Member States created a serious difficulty which could hinder the proper transposition of any further packages.
At the present time, it is possible they may be listening to us and waiting, ear pressed to a radio, for these words, our words, to remind them that they are still alive.
They are certainly also aware that there are changes on the way in the 2009 budgetary year and we will have to react flexibly to the developments in the financial crisis.
It may not be an imminent situation that I am expressing concern about, but it is still worth asking ourselves what impact the creation of a European service such as this will have in the medium to long term.
In addition to the chemicals chapter, the directive also contains a number of additional tighter safety requirements for design and production.
I am therefore extremely optimistic about the future of relations between Tunisia and the EU, since they are being forged against a backdrop of mutual respect between partners who respect one another and have an understanding on the fundamental issues.
In fact it was downright impossible, despite the fact that I held consultations with both the Slovenian and the Portuguese Presidencies on two occasions.
Secondly, the number of countries is increasing, as Mr Lehideux said.
Some scientists say CO2 concentrations have already gone too far.
As for this national reserve, I think we should seize the one opportunity that we have, namely we should develop an insurance scheme that provides cover against animal and plant diseases as soon as possible across the whole of Europe.
Madam President, honourable Members, Thailand is going through a tragic phase in its political history.
We need to encourage Member States to improve the quality of in-service training and ensure that it provides the kinds of practical teaching skills that teachers really need today and tomorrow.
The European budget is minimal in relation to the national budgets.
However, thousands of innocent civilian IDPs still remained trapped on a narrow coastal strip.
The Iranian regime is potentially the biggest threat to world peace and the rule of law.
because of our shared values: freedom, democracy and social justice; and
The European Union - and here I can refer to various European Parliament resolutions - supports every initiative to prevent the weaponisation of space.
Provision is made to apply them in 2016.
They are capable of sending out a message to defend the rights of passengers.
How is it that we accept the US credit-rating firms, such as Moody and others, as the official judges of the economic policy of the Member States and let them dictate economic policy?
At the age of sixteen, I had already taken to the streets of my country to fight against a dictatorship, against the colonial system.
We see this as being part of developing a comprehensive and integrated energy policy for Iraq.
We are working very closely and very well together on this.
We have not yet realised that prevention would cost a great deal less than a cure.
The classification of food on the basis of quality is food differentiation on the basis of class in keeping with the market rationale' first-class food for high incomes and second-class food for working class families.
Let them do so even now, so that this sort of illegal practice is never repeated.
Thank you very much for an interesting debate, Mr President.
The directive put to the vote today concerning the EU Emissions Trading Scheme meets none of these requirements.
I congratulate our committee for tackling the subject.
Our sources, as the report says, were statements by the UK and German Governments.
Yet what we find here is that, owing no doubt to pre-conceived ideas or to some fixation, there is a reaction against the EU getting involved in prevention.
The reason I did so was that the conclusions that arise from this report go significantly beyond the framework adopted during the talks at the summits in Lisbon and Brussels (13 and 14 December 2007).
May I assume that this is what everyone wants?
To that extent the President of Senegal would be very ill-advised to close his eyes to the reality within his country and off its shores.
The justice and home affairs perspective in the EU's external relations needs to be developed.
Commissioner, there is no greater hate crime than murder, and this week in my constituency of Northern Ireland, we had three hate murders of members of the security forces by Irish Republican terrorists.
I would emphasise somewhat the issue of victims and victim protection since, in the framework decision, we had already negotiated unconditional support for all victims, immunity from criminal prosecution, and the right to legal assistance.
In addition, we must remember that when decisions are made in the EU regarding closing EU airspace, the impact of such decisions does not stop at our borders, and discussions with the remainder of the ICAP countries must take place.
CO2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles amount to almost a quarter of emissions from road transport and, while cars are gradually getting more efficient, HGV fuel efficiency has not improved in the last 15 years.
Mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (
I should like to start with the food crisis, which is, of course, a huge problem, as millions of people are in danger of losing their lives, and a joint European approach is desperately needed.
But how this is done does matter to the utmost.
The Council asked the Commission to act in a particular way, and we are now waiting for some feedback from the Commission.
Yet we have a frustration born out of the inability over the years of both railway companies and national governments to act in key areas.
This does not create a level playing field for competition and also takes no account of the differences in the methods used to calculate the profitability of shipyards.
I think that in this House we need to have debates and set forth arguments.
Not a penny of EU taxpayers' money should go on the Community Tobacco Fund.
The Commission. The December summit of the Council made a clear decision and we are aware of the complexity of the situation.
I particularly rely on the legislative activities at the U.S. Congress enabling the Copenhagen Conference to achieve global solutions.
Last week's Economist asked: 'Is there life after debt?'.
They are still waiting for Europe to offer proper support to our SMEs, to genuinely plan investments for the future and, above all, to support all those in Europe who are affected by the crisis.
The vote will take place on Thursday 4 September.
These are age-old problems that deserve a less superficial approach and which cannot be addressed with a decree rushed through Parliament to satisfy public opinion.
Therefore, this forces us to develop a global and coherent strategy for the entire region, a strategy that would aim at ensuring security, sustainable development and thorough integration of environmental protection aspects.
Since data comparability between Member States is very important here, we might perhaps think about having a common methodology for analysing the data.
I obtained material which you were all able to read in the secret reading room.
The Commission really should have acted more swiftly in this regard.
Member of the Commission. - I fully understand your preoccupation, but we in the Commission have to operate under the very clear rules established, especially for the field of budget allocations and budget disbursement.
I wish to note with regard to the report that the unfair competition between European ports must be stopped.
How can someone who has failed in his own country now aspire to be in charge of supervision in Europe?
Caring cannot be the sole responsibility of the informal carer or, indeed, of the Member State.
This will not be the first time and, unfortunately, I fear that it will not be the last.
This is needed in order to ensure the continued operation of the Court.
Imported products, which are not subject to the same high environmental and other standards, are placed on our shelves, often at much cheaper prices.
I am aware that a large European conference will be held in October on the subject of Alzheimer's disease.
I think that a consumer information campaign is important too because it is not sufficient for us just to have this labelling on mobile phones about their energy efficiency.
(HU) I would like to mention the Slovak language law, which has raised grave concerns ever since its approval.
Nobody can precisely define sexual orientation or discrimination based on sexual orientation.
In this new institutional context, I would also like to highlight the enhancement of Parliament's competences and powers.
In one year it has spread from the coast of Sweden to the heart of the Baltic Sea.
Of course, it is always possible to ask for more and to achieve more.
Nothing has yet been allocated to technical assistance.
Let me first outline the key elements of the compromise.
However, this information has certainly not reached the European man in the street yet, who is under the impression that Greece completely dominated the whole spring summit.
Some areas in Romania's South and Southeast region have started to turn into desert.
Modern economies - and democracies - cannot afford to give negative special treatment to persons of academic eminence.
on mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund: Italy, the Abruzzo earthquake and
Many indicators point to the fact that the structural reforms have started to produce results.
There will be no better demonstration that dialogue is the best option than Vietnam's own performance.
A group of fellow Members are proposing amendments to today's document.
For this reason, stricter legislation will guarantee greater transparency, enabling 'market participants to price risks properly'.
However, I would like to draw your attention to the following issues:
One of the things you said about the Commission perfectly demonstrates your qualities and the effort you have made in your work in Parliament.
From that moment on, they are guided by only one motto: 'once we have power we will never give it up'.
This is about European citizens being entitled to a proper democratic and transparent procedure.
On the other hand, as we want to ensure and promote ecological farming, we must not rush to legalise genetically modified organisms.
It is necessary, of course, to use the budget and the national budgets without creating sustainability problems for the future.
The EU must not give further impetus to this trend with the 'Blue Card' scheme.
It is a symbol that represents positive values, which are part of our history, our culture and a society that dates back more than 2 000 years.
in writing. - UKIP believes that ongoing development and improvement in the present international network of facilities and agencies for organ exchange will not be facilitated by the EU's attempts to invade and regulate this network.
(DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the prison camp at Guantánamo has become a symbol of contempt for human rights and the rule of law.
I cannot say when it will be ready, as it will depend on the efficacy of the stock, but we estimate that it will take between 8 and 12 weeks.
It must ensure that Greece comes through this difficult period.
We should remember Denmark in 1992, Ireland in 2001, France and the Netherlands in 2005, and even Sweden on the euro in 2003.
Indeed, how can they think of waging this battle against Chancellor Merkel?
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group would like a separate vote on the last indent of paragraph 1(a), entitled, and I quote: 'Delegation for relations with Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia, Montenegro and Kosovo'.
I would like, however, at this point, to draw attention to the issue of benefits paid to families of immigrants arriving from outside Europe.
With regard to foreign policy, it is true that there was no summit with the United States, but there were two major agreements. It is also true that there were major agreements and summits with Latin America.
It is wonderful that you are all here again.
Therefore, in accordance with Rule 124(4) of the Rules of Procedure, it will be forwarded to its addressees and published with the names of its signatories in the Texts Adopted of the sitting of 25 February 2010.
You have just said that the strength of Europe's economy lies in its small and medium-sized enterprises.
What is important in all of this is the development of education, and this includes statutory education, which should encourage creative thinking.
Together we must call and work for a European response to the financial crisis.
(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have noticed that the vote which took place yesterday in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has been mentioned several times.
The next important matter is the rate of self-financing under present conditions; in this area, greater flexibility should be considered.
In addition, through its recent decision not to introduce the Ecological and Fishing Protection Zone Croatia has cleared the way for faster progress in the accession negotiations.
I should therefore like to take issue with the Commissioner specifically on that point.
In addition, the debate opens with speeches by the political group spokesmen.
It goes without saying that a plan of this kind must be based on an authoritative and long-term commitment by the Member States and the efficient use of Community instruments and policies.
Finally, I would like to congratulate Ms Patrie for a great report.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - (PL) Madam President, controlling fraud, hitherto chiefly within the province of Member States, is a problem which cannot be resolved solely at the national level.
The Polish cosmetics industry consists mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises which cannot afford to carry out the complicated tests needed to introduce substitute substances in many cosmetics.
In Eastern Europe, the main route of transmission was via drug injection.
Nevertheless, by encouraging internal supply in Western European countries, these stimuli have enabled the market to continue to be a source of growth through external demand for Central and Eastern European countries.
I consider it important that we continue to encourage people in this regard.
When the legislation is amended three days before the second ballot, right in the middle of the elections, for whatever purpose, this does not demonstrate that the process has been understood.
The summit's unsatisfactory outcome is due to both the reticence shown by the large industrialised countries and the system's complicated rules based on the UN's consensus.
It points to inadequate control and sanctions.
I personally regret the deletion of the group support regime, because it is a missed opportunity to make further progress in group supervision.
It has one of the best health standards among countries in North Africa, with a relatively high life expectancy.
The Commission needs to assume its legislative responsibility in this area again and make certain that in future Member States remain able to apply their generally applicable rules on employment law and collective agreements.
However, the substance is the key issue: it is important to ensure that this cooperation focuses on practical cultural needs in the broader sense, on the needs of the cultural and artistic sectors, on simply expanding culture.
Last year, the whole of Europe was swept by a wave of discussion and opposition to a verdict which prohibited the display of a cross in a public place.
Incidentally, the vast majority of the Burmese population are victims of two-fold exploitation.
Under the scope of the present discussion, it is necessary to ensure environmental surveillance of the waters of the Atlantic, as the people of these islands depend on the good environmental condition of their marine waters.
I would like to reassure everybody that we are doing our best to contribute so that our CAP reform will be for the best future of our fishermen.
We save it until we get home; then we make up for lost time when the government is in a position to defend itself.
Secondly, the territorial integrity of Georgia cannot be undermined in any way and, thirdly, peacekeepers in the potential breakaway regions must be neutral and trusted by all sides.
Many elements from the 2004 Procurement Directive have been retained here.
We are now going to be able to put all of this into practice.
The Regulation, in the form proposed by the Commission, only specifies that the suspension is required when the key components of the national control system are not efficient due to the gravity or persistence of identified deficiencies.
Finally, I would like to stress that the ongoing lack of harmonisation seems to me to be a clear cause of the weakening of the European customs system.
You said, 'Les dégâts n'ont pas été considérables,' and yet Commissioner Ferrero Waldner has given us the figures and this House will be called on to agree to pay the bill!
Matters of legal protection against discrimination differ between Member States, in particular with respect to reproductive rights, the traditional family, education and religion.
The payment of travel expenses for an accompanying person should be linked to the severe disability concept, which is in any case largely defined perfectly by law in the Member States.
It is also an expression of the agreements between the social partners.
These are the Commission's initial considerations on the report that we are discussing today.
Europe must not become a two or more speed Europe.
The Rhine-Main-Danube waterway is a bridge connecting East and West, between the North Sea and the Black Sea.
However, there is a serious difference of opinion between the Council and Parliament.
(GA) Madam President, I welcome this report and I commend the rapporteur on his excellent work.
The aim of the international climate change conference which begins in Copenhagen on 7 December is to establish a post-Kyoto agreement which will make the countries of the world reduce polluting emissions.
Even the EU's employment record over the past ten years has clearly shown that atypical and precarious jobs, in particular, have risen to 60%.
The Convention on Cluster Munitions prohibits the use, production, stockpiling and transfer of Cluster Munitions.
in writing. - Willi Piecyk's report 'An integrated Maritime Policy for the European Union' addresses the challenges that Europe's maritime industry now faces.
The Commission fully shares the concerns expressed by honourable Members on the issue of the death penalty, and agrees with the need, pending complete abolition of the death penalty, to declare an immediate moratorium on all executions.
It is not by imposing structures that may occasionally be unnatural, in the name of the principles of equality and non-discrimination, that women will more naturally take up their role within companies, whatever they may be.
I hope that the Ministers of Finance at the Ecofin Council in March will hear the message from the Heads of State or Government.
All of this only confirms the harmfulness of the current concept of the European Central Bank.
It should be recalled that the security of the Schengen area will be further strengthened through the full implementation of the SIS II system.
Action is needed to do away with stereotypes in this regard.
We need a close partnership with the Commission, but we do not need collusion.
Therefore, I should like to point out that group return operations are something totally different from collective expulsions according to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights.
(DE) Mr President, before we come to the final vote, I just wanted to say that I am bewildered, because all my yellow neighbours have disappeared.
So, if you protest, just send this protest to your group.
It is in Asia, meanwhile, that the challenge of combating global warming will be won or lost.
It is well-known that the dissuasive effect of a law depends more on how likely it is to be applied than on the sanctions that it carries.
The march organised by opposition parties on 3 May at first did not receive the approval of the Moscow authorities and then ended with the arrest of the participants, including the leaders of the opposition.
Only 40% of the country's teachers are working and only one third of students attend classes.
Another important point is that both the Intrastat system and the international trade statistical system are based on the recommendations for an international trade in goods statistical system developed by the UN's Statistical Division.
The reason given was that China would gain an inadequate advantage in its relations with other countries.
It recommends a distinction be made between matters arising from Community frameworks and those subject to national implementation.
Jean-Claude Juncker once said, 'If we do not rapidly redesign our social, pension and health systems so that they are fit for the future, we will become the losers in the globalisation process, instead of the winners.'
It cannot be tackled by any individual Member State on its own.
We all understand that the issue of control is a great deal simpler with the single net rule, but this matter also poses serious problems for certain fisheries, as you are indeed aware.
I ask the Council to listen to Cassandra for once.
How can the great project of Europe, based on the transcendental value of human dignity, open towards the world, leading the way in terms of rights, manage without a symbolic dimension?
This concerns specific investments, both through the Lisbon Strategy in terms of knowledge and through the Gothenburg Strategy in terms of energy and ecology.
Whenever they raise the security issue, they should first raise the organised crimes committed by the Camorra.
Important savings will be made by using one single communication network;
The Chairman of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, Rajendra Pachauri, recently called for a reduction in meat consumption.
So I would say to the President-in-Office: please do not set the ball rolling; take it back again.
As I have already had occasion to say to you, the measures that have been taken have in fact been either within a national context or within a framework of traditional multilateral diplomacy.
This is confirmed by the adoption of the Stockholm Programme.
So the Commission always facilitates the inclusion of Members of Parliament in Community delegations negotiating multilateral agreements.
We believe that the rights of this Parliament have been fully taken on board but we had to negotiate on behalf of the European Union and, as I told you, today's decision of the Commission was taken unanimously.
The EU failed especially in demonstrating a unified and efficient approach to climate change treatment, as well as in strengthening its leading political position in this agenda.
(RO) For well over eight years, our countries have been wasting human lives, energy and huge financial resources in a country ravaged by war where two empires, the British and Soviet empires, had already been bogged down.
The idea in the proposal is that the EU, in partnership with the UNHCR, will contribute to more strategic use of resettlement on the basis of an annual decision on the common priorities for resettlement.
There we saw queues of young women - in fact they were really just girls of 13 or 14 - and there was a stream of urine coming down the street from where they were queuing.
There should be no need for us Parliamentarians to discuss effective protection for non-smokers.
We will particularly highlight development issues within the context of the ongoing negotiations.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, the Court of Justice plays a central role in the EU system and the Court has the power to interpret political decisions.
I think it reflects Parliament's concerns about how much the Union has so far abided by its commitments within the framework of the Sixth Community Environment Action Programme.
I noticed the other day that the end of August was the closure date for consultation on the Late Payments Directive.
(DE) Mr President, I would like to ask you which article of the Rules of Procedure allows Groups to correct their voting lists here with your consent?
Finally, on the subject of the amendments that have been tabled, I should like to counsel the Socialist Group in the European Parliament against them, to accept the report as it is before us.
(PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, besides congratulating our colleague Mrs Sudre on her excellent report, I would like to make three points on the European Union's future strategy for the outermost regions.
The Decade of Roma Inclusion, which began in 2005, has so far changed little about this.
There is simply the quasi-religion that so much effort is going into establishing.
I tabled an amendment to have that withdrawn, but it just failed to go through.
By contrast, public facilities, which are cheaper or - on rare occasions - free, have lower costs but are of a poor standard.
We have long expressed our opposition to the Treaty and do not believe that it would be in the interests of the UK and the EU to have the new foreign policy tools provided for in the Treaty.
In other words, the setting of the deadline would be your decision.
International aviation is not yet covered by the Kyoto Protocol.
I believe that the lesson of this crisis is that we are now in a global economy.
I am sorry but I do not think we should listen to personal comments like that in this Chamber.
We are all obviously aware of the current demographic crisis.
My second point is that the return of the refugees, which Mr Boştinaru has just mentioned, has, in my opinion, been handled in an exemplary way.
What we have not seen, and what we should see, given that the accounts have been very biased, is what happened in Ossetia.
Finally, I would also like to add that no matter what significant arguments can be found in favour of investing in the development of low-emission technologies, this should not take place at the expense of cohesion policy.
In my view, they are shooting themselves in the foot, because farming created our cultural landscapes during the course of history and is in a position to maintain them now.
The opt-out, originally devised for the UK, became an opt-out that 14 other countries progressively needed to use, and we heard from the Czech Presidency today that at least two others are now joining that group.
Much of the modern technology is simply deadlocked by our own legislation.
As in 2007, the monetary analysis in the first half of 2008 has continued to confirm the prevailing upside risks to price stability at medium to longer horizons.
It must also build the economy, and the Commissioner rightly states that good progress has been made with regard to the ENP, although much remains to be done.
As is well known, the Commission has undertaken in-depth work on Greek statistics over several years.
in writing. - We, Greens, voted in favour of this report.
Our message today should be addressed to the EU governments and the Commission.
I am not willing to equate the crimes of the Nazis, the Holocaust and the genocide that saw six million Jews, along with Communists, Trade Unionists and disabled die, with those of Stalinist Russia.
Currently, by decision of the Member States, the airlines use all necessary devices, be they child seats or safety belts. Once we have some hard, provable scientific evidence we shall be able to provide answers.
The possibility of education leads to training and professional reintegration.
In fact, as the Court of Auditors says in this report, 95% of all expenditure is free of errors, except in the Structural Funds, where the level of error is higher.
We need to cooperate with regard to conflict settlement in our common space.
Although we have seen terrible attacks targeting government institutions, the total number of civilian deaths in 2009 was less than half of the level of 2008.
Mr Vondra was absolutely clear that this is a single market, and we do not want competitive activities there.
For the sake of the planet, for the good of an industry that needs to stay at the cutting edge of world-class technology, it is time now for law-makers to steer them firmly in a greener direction.
The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission by Mr Parish, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on animal transport - B6-0496/2008).
In recent years almost all of these meetings have included discussions with the Commission on the implementation of the Council mandate concerning EPAs, which have often resulted in the adoption of conclusions.
I am pleased to see that, in line with our proposals, clear definitions have been included of what constitutes a technical rule and of the exclusions, and I am particularly glad that the tricky problem of language has been resolved.
For the sake of the wellbeing and preservation of Jerusalem, I hope that, in the few days remaining before Christmas, this can still be achieved.
I would like to welcome the fact that the total level of Parliament's budget is below the self-imposed limit of 20% of expenditure under heading 5 (administrative expenditure) of the multiannual financial framework.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is excellent that the Commission has drafted a proposal for a Baltic Sea Strategy and that Sweden has added it to its agenda.
This approach constitutes the difference that the EU can point to, particularly in comparison with other international actors.
Firstly, more effective aid indeed requires the donor countries to coordinate their aid better on the basis of a country strategy in which the partner countries in the south take the lead.
However, as is always the case when there is something fundamentally harmful in an agreement negotiated by the Commission, everything is done in secret.
Their political propaganda draws on social insecurity and tries to add pieces to the mosaic of the war of civilisations.
The euro crisis which we have just been through proves to us just how relevant this position still is.
In this respect, health systems such as ours quite clearly demand recognition of the fact that a visiting patient should not have more rights than an indigenous patient from the Member State where treatment is taking place.
A disaster has occurred and has claimed victims - others have occurred in the past - and it is only natural that one should question its causes.
We will adapt the regulation to the new authority and supervision roles based on the text that you have negotiated with the Council.
There is something in it for all of us as each of us lives within networks of broader or narrower family and social relationships, in which we are personally involved.
It was consolidated at every step taken by the people in winning freedom, and it has suffered and still suffers setbacks every time that the circumstances of history allow big capital to go on the offensive.
With these rules, Mr Rasmussen, we are actually hindering restructuring of the financial sector, and the losses will mount.
If we want to gain acceptance among the people of Europe for the EU project, we need a break with radical free-market concepts and more direct democracy.
First of all, could I call for more honesty in our approach to Turkey.
The problem of compensation is also growing, and claims are being made by healthcare workers as well as patients.
This is the price at which we will prove equal to the principles that we so often claim to observe in order to criticise those of others.
We must do this in such a way that the European internal market benefits from it and that we open up new opportunities for the European Union on the world market with green technologies and environmentally friendly products.
Any quota increase should be linked to a Community study.
The European Community will then join the other WTO members which have already accepted the TRIPS agreement.
In an island where the sun and wind exist in abundance one would have expected that full use would be made of these two elements.
Indeed, I think it is fitting that one of the countries whose citizens voted 'yes' to the constitution is the country that will start the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty.
However, I wish to single out FYROM.
Key technical aspects affecting the main fleets have not been resolved; on the contrary, new restrictions such as an additional biological recovery period have been imposed, without much scientific rigour.
However, I must conclude by saying that there will surely be no need for a third relaunch.
(PT) I would like to propose a new paragraph before paragraph 1 that states as follows:
Mr President, we in Europe must improve the order in our regulations and checks and make appropriate efforts so that safe products are manufactured in China and third countries.
The next item is the Commission Statement on the revision of Council Directive 94/45/EC of 22 September 1994 on the establishment of a European Works Council.
Each year alone I organise hundreds of meetings with young people, farmers and businessmen.
I have not been particularly strict, because we actually have a little more time than is stated in the rules.
That is why we have to be creative; that is why we have to show solidarity.
It is also well known that in days gone by, they helped protect the health of the inhabitants of fortified towns because where there are dogs, there are no rats or snakes.
Obviously it is not the directive that some of us would have drawn up if we had had the chance to do so, if each of us had been left to prepare it individually.
We adhere to the notion that the EU is a peace organisation and that it should not be militarised and become a superpower's agent.
As Mr Schmitt's excellent report highlights, university-business partnerships are one of the major components of the success of our educational model.
(ES) I would like to welcome Mrs Espinosa; I am very pleased that she is here.
I have been inundated with correspondence from my own country today in relation to this.
What we are seeing today is the growth of a new society.
The second concern is the one expressed by Mrs Stihler, namely that with this revision of the regulation, there could be unreasonable exploitation of fish stocks, in particular the fish stocks of third countries.
It is not just a matter of inequality between countries.
All of the parties involved, and the international community as a whole, can learn from this report.
However, the values, traditions and rules by which we conduct ourselves are public knowledge, and we cannot change them so that simply anyone can join.
The first thing is the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty.
He has taken account of all the texts from the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
in writing. - (DE) I voted against Mr Davies' report on the Community Strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars and light-commercial vehicles.
Since saving lives is one of the goals of the initiative in question, I wished to briefly mention this issue.
My fear now is that if the Member States are inconsistent in applying the option to exempt microentities, it will result in the single market being divided up.
Mr Ford and Mr Fjellner talked about the importance of trade generally and I agree completely with that analysis.
In particular, I do not believe that Turkey's actions in northern Iraq can be described merely as 'disproportionate military operations'; instead we should assert that this is an open violation of international law.
The government is taking steps to do so, but an effective solution will then need to be found and it will be vital for that solution to be based on European rules.
in writing. - The negative impact of the current oil and fuel prices affects all EU citizens.
How we cooperate effectively and what information is included, bearing in mind indeed what was said about what can we put in the public domain or not.
So, we are moving at the right time and it can benefit the most marginalised so that they can all look forward to having a house, a hearth, a stool and the shining delph.
I am also thinking at this point of respect for the rights of ethnic minorities and, an issue that is important for me, activities that glorify fascism and genocide should not be permitted.
There is legislation in force which must be respected.
The Treaty of Lisbon gives the Union legal grounds to establish intellectual property law, and provides that suitable standards will be adopted under the Ordinary legislative procedure.
If the crisis is to be resolved there has to be a new style of government of the area: no more derogations, but applications of European laws.
Through this regulation, we will also contribute towards creating a new and fair market in agriculture.
This, however, is not recognised when calculating the goods and services that make up the GDP of a country.
Under Rule 37(1), can I ask for the various exchanges between the Commission and these NGOs, who have been lobbying us on all these matters?
The EU countries are so different that uniform rules are impossible to administer.
It is has been difficult to distinguish fact from fiction and to come to a decision on how to vote.
Now I come to my final point on the proposal to amend the Regulation establishing a European Railway Agency.
It will strengthen the infrastructure and social bonds between cities and regions, and will also contribute to a growth in their wealth.
The more civilian deaths, the more Palestinian deaths, the less security in the region!
Multilingualism is an area with wide ramifications.
Projects are under way between Bucharest and Constanza.
Producers (of cereals, pork, olive oil, fruit, vegetables, etc.) are experiencing extremely difficult conditions at the moment due to the slump in demand, and they are getting very low prices for their products compared with their production costs.
(DE) Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has much to offer to help all of us make our lives and our economies better.
The Commission and Member States share particular responsibility for future success.
In this case as well, everyone is forgetting.
Before Xynthia there was Madeira, and before Madeira there was Sicily; tomorrow, there will be other disasters.
Despite the uncertainties relating to the entry into force of the new treaty, we have been able to secure a smooth transition into the new legal framework.
They should be tried and acquitted or convicted, released or punished.
I urge the Council to approve this directive this month so that it will pass at first reading.
Another area I wish to highlight is the commitment to reshape the EU budget with a root-and-branch reform.
Unfortunately, though, that kind of model of integration - a free-market, decentralised, organic one - is not what we have been voting on in our series of reports today.
I also congratulate the Commission for the efficient manner in which they have provided us with the current transitional rules.
This means that there will be grey areas and overlaps in the budget, because I am sure that everyone thinks that cohesion and agricultural policy should be included in the 2020 strategy.
The third is to improve the linguistic competence of the population in general, because globalisation has its rules, ladies and gentlemen.
I am hoping for good results in this respect next week.
Moreover, I wish to acknowledge the importance of Russia's possible ratification of the Energy Charter Treaty and the Transit Protocol in the avoidance of potential Nord-Stream-project-related disagreements.
The right to independent information, without pressures or conditions on the part of government authorities, must be guaranteed, and this is a public good, a good for everyone, in every country.
As an MEP from Bulgaria, I welcome the fact that the Czech presidency is including energy and energy security among its key priorities.
In spite of this, we should also note that the committee chose to proceed strategically, and so this report was approved with just one vote against.
You may say that is all very well and the Commission has the right to do this.
It is obvious, at least to us Socialists, that the products which have gained an Ecolabel must not contain dangerous substances.
It is both an important and a great step forward and also another small step forward.
Furthermore, the indirect introduction of the country of origin principle is in our view also inappropriate as a means of protecting consumer interests.
It is much better to help the industry keep those core people on the payroll and retrain them than to let them go and then to hire them back again later.
Commissioner Rehn has spoken in somewhat optimistic terms about the negotiations in Cyprus.
We have a duty to note the diversity of opinions on this issue, but it is certain that this is an attack on the very basis of the culture of human rights.
We raise these issues regularly with the high authorities: myself with Sergey Lavrov, and President Barroso with his interlocutors.
It is certainly necessary to open up the market and improve competitiveness.
In this sense it is a blot on the European landscape.
For this reason, I welcome the Commission's proposal and the additions proposed by the rapporteur as they provide a new phase in the creation of a simple, flexible legal framework which complies with EU principles.
Intellegentia, intellegere, intellegens - these Latin terms have to do with discernment, perception and understanding.
What is happening and just how serious is it for us and the future of mankind?
Unreported fishing means a loss of revenue for the state.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I should like to thank Ms Angelilli for this report.
However, the introduction of the euro was greeted very sceptically by people in many countries.
Following global warming, Romania will be, together with Spain, Greece and Italy, among the countries facing climate change the most by 2015.
We cannot continue discussion on this matter indefinitely.
I am thinking of the issue of human rights, here in Europe, and in particular of the role of the Council of Europe.
We must put a stop to the practice of creating fictitious legal entities to evade tax.
Immigration cannot go on being a death trap.
Given the British Conservatives' current opposition to the International Criminal Court, we also acknowledge America's right not to sign the Rome Statute.
In this regard, the EU should have a clearly defined role.
After 1929, countries made the mistake of seeking individual salvation.
(DE) Madam President, firstly, congratulations to Mr Füle on his appointment as Commissioner.
Realistically, it is impossible to prove this within a family where there is also an exceptional right to remain silent.
Global warming effects became more and more visible for Romania in Dobrogea, Southern field or Western sands.
We strongly welcomed the mediation efforts of the Costa Rican President and trust that they will result in a peaceful settlement of the crisis.
This includes measures designed to discourage and prevent fraud and theft of personal data.
I believe that this Report gives a realistic overview of the challenges facing us as we try to devise a suitable transport policy.
Above all, the EU must, in principle, renounce completely untrammelled capitalism, and instead protect its citizens from unbridled greed and the negative effects of uncontrolled globalisation.
The order of business states that Mr Borloo and also Mr Dimas and Mr Piebalgs will be taking the floor again after the speeches by the chairmen of the political groups.
No longer is the proposal being advocated just by academics and minority or opposition groups.
However, we will give a lot of attention to your resolution on this matter and will always bear in mind the human rights aspect when we resort to the instrument of sanctions, within the EU and in the UN.
I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise here and now that we should not press ahead with any decision at this stage.
Fourthly, the Commission shall not refuse to transmit applications to the authorising authority without having given the Member States the opportunity to submit their observations.
The reason for my fears was the instability within the Czech Government coalition, the disagreements between government and opposition and the disputes between government and president.
Parliament did much to promote financing for the two-year project for the Galileo Positioning System and the European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
It is our belief that resuming the dialogue at political level with the authorities, without ceremony but with realism, is the response we must give Belarus today.
This industry continues to be fundamental to the European economy, contributing to employment, technological innovation and competitiveness.
Time is working against us, even more than before as a result of the crisis.
We should be taking the right course, therefore, and that is why I abstained.
(The Minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
The report drafted during the Millennium Summit in 2000 is more relevant than ever.
Many things are changing in the skies at the moment, but the old regulation on liquids still remains in place.
I suggest that we could make this scheme fairer by either abandoning the numerical criteria of 500 jobs or by looking at job loss by category or area, not company.
How can Russia and other nations fail to see in all that anything but an aggressive attitude?
That does not necessarily mean through energy efficiency.
Only two EU members are nuclear-weapon states (NWS), with an additional four participating in NATO nuclear weapons sharing.
The only thing I can say about this is that we all want the authorities to get started, but we will fight for strong powers.
The recently adopted Lisbon Treaty gives more authority to European institutions in a political sense, and it seems to me that a particular kind of divide is opening between political integration, which is making progress, and economic integration.
The heading 'security' indicates the many areas where the EU budget is important and how vital it is for the budget to reflect our needs.
Russia is one of the EU's most important partners and it is essential that the EU and Russia have a strong working relationship.
The problems lie in implementation and interpretation by the European Court of Justice (ECJ).
Indeed, Turkmenistan is located at the crossroads of Europe and Asia and counts Iran and Afghanistan, among others, as neighbours.
Now we all know what this Union stands for, even if we could not manage to read the whole Treaty.
The process of revitalising the European rail sector, which the Community launched several years ago, is now starting to bear fruit.
It is the original form - government by the people and not government on behalf of the people.
I could not disagree with that more fundamentally.
Since women constitute half the population, they must be given a decision-making role in the same proportion.
This would have led to the conclusion that one third, possibly even half, of the EUR 114 or 116 billion could now usefully be ploughed into this major crisis with absolutely no problem.
In that respect, the Committee on Petitions invites the Ombudsman to carry out a detailed study of the practical impact of critical remarks made during inquiries in 2006.
Female journalists are even followed to the toilet by female intelligence service observers to ensure that nothing forbidden can be done.
I believe that the report being discussed will make a significant contribution to the monitoring of the transposition of the regulations stipulated by this directive if Member States and the Commission can successfully cooperate in this respect.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would repeat the words spoken in this House several years ago, on 13 March 2006, by Eija-Riitta Korhola.
President Musharraf justifies his actions as an attempt to stop the country from committing suicide, but it is not that the country is committing suicide but that the actions and deeds of a dictator are killing the country.
Nonetheless, I feel it incumbent upon me to caution the rapporteur regarding the social and economic consequences of a proliferation of limitations on catches, and of irritating and bureaucratic restrictions on the activities of fishermen.
This point has to be clearly highlighted, as has the observation that the powers they have usurped are not being used to dissuade radicals in their own ranks from resorting to violence.
The world economy is getting worse and worse and the already negative context for the car industry in Italy and in Europe is also deteriorating.
There must be no repeats of the shipping accidents involving the Erika and the Prestige.
It should respect the law and the rules, and immediately declare that further ratification of the now dead Lisbon Treaty is a completely useless exercise.
Further to the Economic and Financial Affairs Council discussion in October 2007, a road map of regulatory actions has been adopted.
(PL) Madam President, fitting cars with automatic stability control systems and automatic accident notification has become today's challenge.
(PL) Madam President, firstly, digitisation is a huge opportunity to make our cultural, European and world heritage available to as great a number of Europeans as possible.
All this tarred the Lisbon Strategy's programme with a credibility deficit, which is also a result of the fact that, while it was defined in great detail, the way in which it was executed was not responsible enough.
However, as you said, the situation within Ukraine is not easy.
A key issue in that debate is paragraph 41 of Mr Pomés Ruiz's report, in which the Commission is urged to support the issuing of National Declarations of Assurance.
Please do not misunderstand me: I did not wish to settle a dispute that I am, moreover, incapable of settling.
With regard to the new 'European Union pilot' method, it is not an additional stage in the procedure.
We have got to recognise that, if we are going to create jobs, we have to set the wealth creators free.
If there are other ways that equally solve the problem but, in fact, invite us to get a better trade agreement, then I will explore them.
Any personal data must be processed in accordance with Directives 46/1995, 58/2002 and 24/2006.
Can a mother of 11 really be a terrorist?
This is despite the concerted efforts of many MEPs working on behalf of their constituents and despite lengthy investigations by Parliament into the issue, which, as we know, culminated in the well-received Auken report in March 2009.
The FSA interprets its own rule book in secret; they keep the fines that they impose to beef up their own salaries and pensions; there is no court of appeal.
If we want a long-term, operational financing basis - and I am speaking without any reservations here - then we must incorporate space projects that are relevant to security and defence.
It is regrettable that the Commission has cut funding for refugee camps on the border between Thailand and Burma.
It represents a significant challenge to the present single currency system.
Otherwise we will not achieve security and stability there, but the opposite.
Therefore we need to act, and act immediately; and I am very pleased that the Commission has acted swiftly - and well - by taking some palliative measures, reducing the set-aside for 2008 to zero.
(ES) Mr President, I reject the methods and the time used for this agreement.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Venezuela is a great country and the Venezuelan people have deep-rooted democratic traditions and sentiments.
Unfortunately, parents are not mentioned anywhere in the draft resolution.
- The questions that have not been taken due to lack of time will be answered in writing (see Annex).
The release of the entire quantity of milk would force dairy farms in Austria to close down and it would have serious and unpredictable consequences, including for the cultivated landscape.
This is precisely why the EU must endeavour to make the basic principles of the Energy Charter, still to be ratified by Russia, an integral part of the new cooperation agreement.
Mr President, Prime Minister, if we fail to deal with this crisis immediately, we will be depriving Europe of its future, because without children's integrity our Europe will have no future.
In fact, it is becoming an extremely difficult matter.
Definitely there is a limit to what we can propose in the strategic energy review due to the Lisbon Treaty ratification, because there is an energy article that would give much more opportunity to streamline the response.
I hope that the Member States will make every effort to conclude the necessary ratification procedures for the association of the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein with Frontex as soon as possible.
This calls for energy and hard work.
I also abstained on the vote on paragraph 72 because I am concerned about the implications on free speech.
The financing for this international fund must be transparent.
Governments have twice had to bail out our financial institutions, without these institutions footing even part of the bill themselves.
The revenue that will be generated by auctioning will not go to the European Union's or any other coffers, but will go to the ministries of finance of the Member States which will auction the allowances.
It is impossible for members of the opposition to stand in elections, there is no freedom of expression, and observers from international organisations are being expelled.
The EU is loud and clear if it speaks with one voice.
Although the report contains many parts that clearly set out the progress Macedonia has made, it is totally unacceptable how, at the very last minute, Greek politicians have lobbied against the paragraph on the name issue.
There are good grounds for discussing legislation at EU level.
There are many objections to such an idea, as regards both implementability but also, and even more importantly, its possible implications for freedom of expression.
Our Legal Service has stated that this is not permitted, but the socialists insisted on introducing it.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how can we define this directive?
They reduce the possibility of undertakings describing products as beneficial when they are not.
The Member States were supposed to establish income thresholds and an obligation on anyone entering our countries to demonstrate that their funds are legal.
Commission legislative and work programme for 2008 (vote)
This is the second time: we already increased it in December.
(PL) Mr President, as I take the floor in this debate on tax treatment of losses in cross-border disputes, I should like to highlight the following issues.
Who gets the opportunity to speak during the debate is, of course, also dependent on who is actually present.
National identity and language are at the root of creativity.
It is probably a further success that the rapporteur stood up to enormous pressure from lobbyists.
We will have succeeded for a few moments in freeing them from the heavy humiliation of their chains.
Would the target not be reached too by reducing the superlevy and increasing the dairy quotas?
It would be absurd to cover their losses out of taxes paid by customers.
I do not think that the one who is afraid to play is courageous.
You know the French saying: 'don't climb coconut trees when you have a hole in your trousers'.
France, for its part, has access to only 9 000 tonnes per year, of which only 700 tonnes come from the English Channel and the North Sea.
The reasons range from increasing family breakdown and the growing number of children brought up in single-parent families, to greater mobility of citizens and the spread of modern information technologies.
Let us not apologise for defending the Lisbon Treaty that tries to reinforce accountability, democracy, the coherence and effectiveness of our Union.
I should also like to pay tribute to Mrs Niebler, Chairman of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, your rapporteur and those leading Members of the European Parliament who have made the adoption of this Regulation possible.
author. - Madam President, I want to make a couple of important and essential points.
Both sides in the conflict draw attention to human rights violations committed by the other side, and both sides violate these rights.
It ensures that information is spread swiftly to local offices for action, and this should start by the end of the year.
Indeed, the only new thing, which I applaud, is the possibility of carrying out unannounced visits.
He can only take office, as can the Vice-President, once he has been approved by the European Parliament.
It would be advisable, however, for the feasibility of these measures to avoid, in addition to potential distortions, excessively cumbersome procedures.
I suggest that we examine the possibility of national audit bodies, in their capacity as independent external auditors, and with due regard for international audit standards, issuing national audit certificates for the management of Community funds.
Others have turned to non-state players.
in writing. - I supported all the amendments to the calendar that reduced our time in Strasbourg and increased it in Brussels.
It is also participating in the main international efforts deployed, notably in the framework of the international contact group set up recently by the African Union.
We are talking about rich countries that would have no difficulty dealing with these matters, without receiving scraps from other Member States.
I believe that it is a splendid project that will be making Europe's diverse cultural heritage available to the people of Europe and throughout the world in a digital online library.
In essence, these are measures which need to be taken if a ship is identified and it is suspected that there are people on board trying to evade border controls.
Member of the Commission. - First of all, I am not familiar with the particular area that the honourable Member mentioned, so, if I may, I will come back to him in writing about that.
I will now go through the content of the SET plan.
European emergency call number 112 (written declaration): see Minutes
We welcome the success in reaching a compromise on the sectors in which adaptation to new conditions will take time.
The report's author and fellow Members who support this idea are very well aware that it is not the export subsidies - which are supporting agricultural production in Europe during the current crisis - that are the real problem.
Quite apart from other ethical issues and the danger of copycat science in the human field, animal welfare is a real concern.
Crimes cannot be undone, but they - and more importantly their victims - should never be forgotten.
However, I believe that the EU needs to be attractive not only to highly qualified workers from third countries, but also to young Europeans.
Europe was founded for just this kind of legislation and it is good to be giving an enormous boost to the economy, specifically to SMEs.
(FR) Mr President, Mr Fischer, Mr Barroso, your Presidency, Mr Fischer, shows, once again, how urgent it is for the European Union to have a stable presidency.
However, is that the only aspect which we have to consider?
The resolution on the power of legislative delegation, which is the result of a compromise agreed between all the political groups, presents the above matters properly and deserves Parliament's support.
The second point is that the missile defence shield, and the installations that form part of it, will not be a magnet for terrorists.
You talk about market domination, potential domination.
in writing. - (DE) As we know to our cost, the EU's aim of rapidly increasing the percentage use of biofuel has had adverse repercussions.
Although the aim of these contracts is to introduce flexibility in the labour market for both employers and employees, studies show that they are often associated with precarious work and consequent precarious income.
This report would update and strengthen existing measures for combating these abhorrent behaviours, and define them as criminal offences, punishable by law.
I think that the Medvedev initiative should not be immediately rejected.
When considering where to direct funds when adjusting the funding for individual EU policies, this sphere - and in particular the universities as the natural centres of learning - should not be forgotten.
Its objectors do not even seem to have read the report.
Of course, we have a number of problems, but they do not only concern the market.
His was the first report of its kind during the war.
Fats are an essential part of a correct nutritional intake, but in the right quantities and at the right times of the day.
in writing. - I voted to support the legislation as amended, both on this proposal to reduce emissions of CO2 from cars and on the entire climate change package.
If we want to accelerate the process of increasing the share of renewable energy sources, different countries should act in a coordinated way and leading countries should share their best practice.
Now we shall be conducting an election campaign where things are being shifted to Brussels again.
(MT) Let me make it clear that the European Popular Party is in favour of this agreement.
The education of migrants' children is a step in this direction.
My aim is to involve Parliament and to come to a decision together.
The perpetrators of the Communist indignity should not be part of a democratic order they tried to suppress.
We cannot, however, support this resolution as its point of departure is first and foremost the interests of the EU.
It is still a major handicap for our credibility and efficiency in the world that often we have not been able to form a unified position in these areas.
The second report in the package extends the scope by harmonising controls of aerodromes and their operators.
The Council respects the rights of each Member State to make an independent and sovereign decision on the ratification process in accordance with its internal regulations, and neither the Council nor the Presidency interferes in the matter.
There is no reason for everyone to work on their own on finding solutions to cancer when together we will have more resources and be stronger.
Following that, by September, the Commission will prioritise and organise ideas in order to prepare the draft communication on the strategy and the accompanying action plan.
The storms that hit Madeira killed more than 40 people and wounded or displaced hundreds more.
I think that half of the accidents in the European Union happen in urban areas.
It is important that we now acknowledge this fact once again.
(GA) Mr President, since 1973, my country has received roughly EUR 18 billion from the European Union Structural and Cohesion Fund.
We have talked about audiovisual services, and the question which arises here is: why does the European Union not take action if certain channels are broadcasting hate programmes on EU territory that are aimed directly at children?
This method cannot provide a long-term solution, given the risks it poses to our ecosystem.
I would just like to say a quick word about the secretariat: we envisage the creation of a drafting committee that will soon be handed the responsibility, in particular, of preparing the secretariat's legal statutes.
However, let us imagine for a moment what might have happened if Spain still had the peseta, and imagine if the Zapatero government, as its first act in office, had said, 'we are withdrawing our troops from Iraq'.
I urge - as did the rapporteur - everyone to vote in favour of it.
We thus need the supervision issues in this area to be defined.
From our point of view, procedural questions and various procedural details must not, under any circumstances, be allowed to stand in the way of Georgia receiving assistance this year.
I would like to ask the Commission to do so in time.
Corrections to votes and voting intentions: see Minutes
The report states that Poland, for example, has very low legal costs, but in practice this is not true.
I also support the proposal to develop appropriate measures targeted at young people in the recovery plans drawn up in the economic and financial crisis plans and to ensure better integration of young people into the employment market.
EP contacts, for instance with the Iranian Majlis, are an important channel of communication between the European Union and the Islamic Republic of Iran.
They confirmed to me that in many cases, these asylum seekers show false cards and documents; cases of this have been reported by various police forces and other bodies.
In particular, they use the most modern technology available.
Commissioner Margot Wallström stressed the need for transparency.
Ireland understands itself very clearly as a European nation, at the heart of a European project, but Ireland has also taken a strong view, expressed by its people, as to what that project must be.
On my return, I will report back to the Development Committee, on the Monday afternoon.
I should like to express my sincere thanks to Mr Zaleski for his very balanced report.
As is often the case in politics, the devil is in the detail, and it is therefore important that we retain a balanced attitude towards these questions.
That limit, Commissioner, must be set by the refusal to allow a negative impact on the competitiveness of the EU economy.
in writing. - The Harangozó report makes some important points on social exclusion.
The most important thing is that we try and ensure that the public and the consumer can be certain that the food they are buying in the supermarkets, in their local corner shops is safe to eat.
There are political systems which are significantly worse for human life and the fight against hunger.
The EU's commitment to diversification of source and supply under a common external energy security policy must surely strengthen our hand at the negotiating table with Russia.
We all know what impact this has on climatic trends and the desertification process.
However, the Czech Presidency was also connected with some definite progress.
High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy/Vice-President of the Commission. - Thank you all again for an important and interesting debate.
We have also heard some very worrying reports about attempts to keep a close check on students' contacts and people on visitors' programmes.
Therefore I call upon the Commission and the European Parliament to make more use of the know-how of today's European Union Member States who were recently in the same situation as South Caucasus.
It is therefore time that we began to talk seriously in my country about a new referendum.
Growing concerns due to terrorism and other security threats, including reactions to those threats which are sometimes insufficiently well thought out, have obviously reduced the level of sensitivity to human rights.
It is not possible to recognise the right to translation without recognising the right to legal assistance or the right to information.
The PSE has also voiced its support for the establishment of a close link between climate change and the current food crisis.
The authors of this resolution therefore rightly call for East Timor to be assured political, technical and financial support.
That said, there is still a lot of work to be done in both areas.
The Eurostars Joint Programme is an excellent means of achieving the Lisbon goals, of enhancing competitiveness, and of strengthening innovation.
To conclude, for the first time every aspect of the entire aviation sector will be dealt with.
All it takes to use the filter is to register at www.davide.it.
If we are not careful, the incentive to produce high-quality, safe meat will disappear because we are allowing inferior quality products to undermine prices and farmers' incomes.
Firstly, can the Commission provide an assessment of the 'state of play' in the main negotiating areas of the Doha Round, especially in agriculture, NAMA (non-agricultural market access) and services?
Let me conclude by saying that approval of the Lisbon Treaty will give us a few more chances.
Indeed, we believe the proposed increase in aid will be a strong incentive to retain the crop.
- Before the vote on Amendment 3:
In the European Union, we are building a community of modern post-national states.
We must have a European energy policy with substance, and here too we have fallen behind and need to move swiftly.
I therefore feel - together with my Group - that Iran is actually betraying its own history when the current regime treats its people as it has unfortunately been doing for a number of years now.
Under EU law, unanimity in this regard is essential.
This is not a consolation, but I would like you also to see that the fact that we have not yet completed all the implementing procedures does not cause damage in this sense.
Currently, after making such significant progress, we are experiencing the economic crisis, which is affecting employment.
It is a dictatorship and a police state.
I appreciate the work done by the rapporteurs and I am happy that we have adopted this modern Directive, which simplifies and underpins our high ambitions in this area.
Furthermore, we cannot break the commitments we have made with candidate countries, although we should also respect the well-known principles of consolidation and conditionality.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have done my utmost to ensure that as many speakers as possible take the floor.
Twenty years on, the design of toys has changed, with toys containing powerful magnets and more electronic components, using lasers and emitting more noise.
Two areas are stifling rail freight in Europe.
In essence, the only thing that need be done is to supplement the existing rules.
Dignity at work means health and safety at work.
In the next few days the Council is expected to draft a reply to the letter from the President of the European Parliament, Mr Pöttering, regarding interinstitutional cooperation on human rights dialogue.
When we in the Commission talk about coordination, we are talking about this type of coordination.
Sadly this money was most needed a few months ago when food prices were soaring.
While it is often said that the 21st century will be the century of the Pacific - a suggestion that warrants Europe's close attention - India should be added to this prophecy and our strategies adapted accordingly.
The compromise offers an opportunity for a timely, adequate assessment.
The fact still remains, however, that a strategy must be formulated. At any rate, the Commission is now working on such a strategy and a relevant communication will be tabled very soon, in the next few weeks in fact.
I voted against the majority resolution because it failed to stipulate the improvement of environmental performance as a precondition for receiving public money.
A little self-criticism, of course, would enrich the comments of certain people in a good way.
I should like to highlight once again that the adoption of this specific directive will not affect consumers, nor will it cause the price of phonograms to rise.
I think this is a distraction in many ways although it should be dealt with.
The Commission has no specific information indicating the main third countries in which European funds choose to set up offshore companies in order to evade taxes.
For Ireland, the stability brought about by the euro currency, notably as regards interest rates and foreign-exchange rates, is a key factor in enabling us to emerge from the turmoil, not unscathed, but certainly still standing.
We have to deal with this lack of regulation.
It would, however, be a disgrace if poor countries were to be penalised in this way, because they feel that the EU and the ACP countries are not equal partners at this moment.
This is a second reading decision.
The problem lies not in the availability or otherwise of sufficient drinking water, but in the distribution of clean drinking water, unnecessary pollution, and the drive towards privatisation.
Another important aspect is our relations with international maritime organisations, because they are the arenas where many important agreements are made on behalf of the entire maritime sector.
The regulation aims to encourage the joint accountability of exporters and importers and to support them in their cooperation effort so as to ensure control over the international circulation of hazardous chemicals.
(PL) Madam President, I welcomed the fact that, for the first time, initiatives concerning simplification of legislation have been included in the Commission's work and legislative programme for the current year.
(DE) Commissioner, in the case of road vehicles, noise emissions may not exceed defined ceilings.
The document proposes a major refocusing of the EU's spending priorities, placing greater emphasis on - and I paraphrase - a global Europe, and less on agriculture and transfers towards well-off regions.
In certain important sectors, the Permanent Partnership Council (PPC) has helped to achieve this objective.
We will not recognise, under any circumstances, the so-called states created illegally and as a result of conflict in separatist regions, nor election proceedings organised illegally, such as those carried out recently in Abkhazia.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon is giving the European Union more competence in the field of energy policy.
For example, the Baltic States are the countries of the European Union that need to implement AIDS prevention policies most.
President-in-Office of the Council. - I think that, having a Czech presidency, you cannot expect us to stay silent.
It should be noted that the provisions affected by the proposal expired on 31 December 2006.
Moreover, the struggle against climate change offers Europe an excellent opportunity to increase new technologies and create new jobs in order to promote energy security.
Legal recognition is a fundamental precondition and allows for access to health and schools as well as to social provision.
This concludes the information I wished to provide you with today.
Is the same not true of the Iraqi authorities and their scandalous intervention in Camp Ashraf, which houses Iranian refugees?
This redistribution of financial power is also shaping our political discussions.
I am very pleased to inform you that we have with us here today a delegation of Members of the Croatian Parliament, the Sabor.
The capacity problems at Europe's airports are not only a national problem but also a European one, and consequently I welcome the Commission's action plan and 14-point plan as an initial step towards improving capacity at Europe's airports.
However, at the same time, the proposal contains comprehensive rules for the monitoring authorities, both at the external borders of the EU and on the markets of the Member States.
It was also very low-key, and nobody is talking about developing a nuclear sector in Africa.
(EL) Mr President, I support and shall vote in favour of Mrs Paliadeli's report and wish to congratulate Mr Diamandouros on the work which he has carried out.
Centralised clearance is a new feature: it strengthens the cooperation between the Member States and the European Union.
This regulation will have positive outcomes, in that it will ensure greater transparency and accountability.
Mr President, Commissioners, we must ensure that the promises of donations made at the donors' conference henceforth materialise as actual funds, and also actually reach their intended recipients.
(Applause from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe)
I also see no relationship between the accident and the reasoned opinion we sent to Belgium in 2008 regarding the lack of independence between infrastructure managers and rail undertakings.
This is one of the biggest social inequality issues in the world and I believe that the EU - whilst I recognise the Commissioner's personal commitment - has been very slow in addressing it.
Take the energy market, for example, where 90% of the world's resources are controlled by sovereign states.
I would like to make it very clear that I think that milk production should be preserved right across Europe.
Once again, social aspects are not given a high enough priority in the legislative and work programme.
The Member States will be unable to entrust tasks to the EIB on a long-term basis or to ensure that it has prudential supervision.
I trust that such action by the British police is an isolated incident and that this attitude towards citizens working legally in the United Kingdom is the exception rather than the rule.
It needs to support the economic development of individual states, to develop a network of mutual ties, and to increase the availability of African products on the world market.
However, we must also remember that the same infrastructure is to be used for the visa information system, VIS.
As the Council Presidency, we also support the regional processes that have been described.
I have worked with the authors of this amendment on other occasions, but I believe that, at the present time, in tabling this amendment they are confusing adjectives and nouns, what is accessory with what is fundamental.
It is worse, ladies and gentlemen, with democracy and the protection of human rights within the European Union.
Shifting freight traffic from road to rail remains a central aim.
This is a consequence of the financial and economic crisis which they facilitated by deregulating financial and trade markets, and pushing through free trade agreements with third countries, without heeding the interests of workers or the public.
I should also like to thank your group chairmen, Lutz Goepel, Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos, Niels Busk, Friedrich-Wilhelm Graefe zu Baringdorf, Vincenzo Aita and Sergio Berlato.
Our education systems should not have to be adapted to the cultures of other peoples.
In the EU we are always talking about rights, and never about duties, or about duties with regard to the future.
As I said earlier, not even the European Parliament can legislate for climatic conditions and soil conditions throughout the entire continent.
At the beginning of next month, on the third, there will be a gathering of all the national authorities in Brussels at which we will compare our views on how the directives on safety are implemented everywhere.
It is, indeed, this policy which contributes most to strengthening the identity of regions and local society.
The key to effective dialogue lies in the present day, which has brought us enough problems anyway.
Although gender equality is a fundamental right in the European Union, official statistics show, however, that differences still exist in terms of employment rate, especially in those countries which have recently joined the European Union.
Now, because a Member has left, we are voting in one more Vice-President today - so the only important thing is whether he has received the number of 'Yes' votes required for election.
Then it would have some credibility when it spoke of democracy.
Finally, we clearly need a replacement system for air travel, even once there is a single European sky.
Today, I would like the European Parliament to adopt this resolution in plenary.
The Europe 2020 strategy rightly states that growth should be intelligent, sustainable and inclusive.
They could also transfer their registered office to any Member State they choose.
I understand that some members of his own group do not agree with that.
Rolling stock will at last move around using a single signalling system.
However, I cannot yet see any clear outlines.
(SK) I worked for three years as an obstetrician in Africa, so this problem means quite a lot to me.
My thanks also to the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Neil Parish, who has been very helpful and supportive.
Barroso's weak and vague policy plan gives little hope for change.
The next question, which is in fact the most important, concerns respecting freedom of speech, and here the law should be respected just as it is in every other area.
The cursed Treaty of Lisbon, which is simply an airbrushed version of the Constitution, suffered exactly the same fate, rejected, as it was, in a democratic referendum by the Irish people.
We are now pursuing this goal with determination through a significant action that we affirmed during our recent congress in Italy.
in writing. - (DE) Conflict resolution for millions of Uighurs in China - dialogue not condemnation.
I would also really like to know whether or not citizens will ultimately benefit in the coming years from the liberalisation of the markets and the drastic cuts in direct aid that European farmers are suffering from.
For example, last year the League of European Research Universities presented a study which concluded that the plan for the European Institute of Technology was 'misconceived and doomed to failure'.
However, the discussion, and hence the negotiation towards full EPA - regional and with full coverage - is ongoing.
They are still being manufactured in Germany, in the United Kingdom, in France, in Spain and Belgium.
The Commission is ready to work on a proposal to establish a fisheries protection area in the Adriatic, as foreseen under the new Mediterranean Regulation.
I voted in favour of the Lyon report because I fully support its aim of regionalising and maintaining aid in the form of coupled payments for vulnerable agriculture territories and sectors.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group requested this debate because we believe that action is urgently required.
Therefore, Mr President, my congratulations to this young MEP, for whom I predict great success in Parliament, and the support of my group, Mr President, for this reform.
The media too should encourage innovative thinking by showcasing achievements and showing respect for those responsible for those achievements.
These improvements may increase the price of new cars but, then, reduced emissions mean improved fuel economy, so those who buy the cars will save money as they drive them.
What kind of monitoring will we carry out in those third countries in which the European Union observes the elections in order to ensure respect for political pluralism and the involvement of civil society in the long term?
It should be a non-negotiable requirement that unaccompanied minors should not be deported to third countries.
Mr President, rather like Mr Schulz, I was concerned at the beginning of this presidency at the slowness to react to the looming financial crisis.
That is why I am proposing that, in future, more resources be put into this at European level.
But the people concerned remain just as much at risk of social exclusion as before.
The cosmetics market is full of fanciful promises and quasi-scientific mumbo-jumbo, where the copywriter's verbal flamboyance is the only yardstick in testing the product's efficacy.
We have a Council decision for the Stockholm Programme, which refers to this matter, and we have the Commission action plan on implementing the Stockholm Programme.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I shall just repeat what President Wilson said in 1917 and what, for example, our honourable colleague Mr Swoboda said half an hour ago: the nation alone cannot solve problems.
Mr President, Mr Giscard d'Estaing, Mr Juncker, Mr Trichet, Mr Almunia, ladies and gentlemen, many good points have already been made.
It is difficult to resist the impression that in Copenhagen, world leaders were playing a risky game, and were not trying to work out the best agreement, but to blame the other side for the lack of an agreement.
To achieve all this, we need to mobilise available resources and focus research, coordinate our efforts and fund specific projects.
This is particularly important to enable us to deal with the problem of the 'working poor'.
The European Union has to take a much more resolute stance against the death sentences passed in the country and the executions, and especially those imposed on young and under-age criminals.
Added to that there is the threat of terrorism and the huge upsurge in migration flows, the radicalisation of fundamentalists and extremists of various kinds, the increase in trafficking and the risk of a proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Everyone in this House knows that all 30 countries which belong to the OECD have debt of over 100% of GDP and 30% higher than in 2008.
Secondly, we need an emergency 'Central and Eastern Europe gas infrastructure' plan, with the money that is available.
(NL) In my view, Parliament should be a little ashamed of the de facto budget amendment it has just adopted in this report.
These include well-designed structural reforms to enhance competition, increase productivity and foster labour-market flexibility.
I know that credit unions are not strong in all European countries, but they are strong in many, with reserves in excess of EUR 40 billion.
The task now is to see whether a similar arrangement can be achieved for all the European institutions.
However, discharge is not the responsibility of three Chairmen or a diverse body, but instead of the Committee on Budgetary Control and then of plenary.
On 9 November, the Presidency hosted a conference at which Member States and representatives of civil society had the opportunity to share their experiences and information relating to combating violence against women.
How do you view the formation of a group of 'green forerunners' within the WTO, consisting of countries wanting to eliminate trade tariffs for sustainable products in order to promote their use?
I would say to the Commission and to the Council that we should be much bolder when we get to 2010.
Following enlargement in 2004 and the admission of Bulgaria and Romania - i.e. with 27 Member States - the Union functioned on the basis of the Treaty of Nice.
Next autumn, in Copenhagen, the Union shall participate in the conclusion of an international post-Kyoto agreement.
There are more than 160 million buildings in Europe, and these buildings need to be renovated in respect of their thermal efficiency in order to minimise energy consumption, thereby bringing about a corresponding reduction in overall energy consumption.
It is crucially important that the directive should make the return process subject to the Community's monitoring mechanisms.
The situation is a sensitive one and the conflict between the parties has become polarised.
This has been the work of a certain kind of press, because sin, defamation, and condemnation are what it thrives on.
A report was published in 2004 and another last year detailing the horrible conditions of the average female prisoner in my own constituency in Northern Ireland.
It is continuing to make many demands on the candidate countries, and also on Member States, which have to explain this process to their citizens.
In this respect, I am glad to notice that our rapporteur, Mrs HAUG, puts the emphasis on the importance of the principle of solidarity as one of the cornerstones of European policies, especially with regard to cohesion and structural policies.
Decisive steps must be taken to bring an end to discrimination.
When we talk about energy efficiency, we should make sure that we put our own House in order.
This is in the interests of bringing our industry together across Europe.
I firmly believe that the greater involvement of women in political life, especially at the national level, will be assisted by genuinely free competition between candidates in electoral contests.
Today, almost a week since the chaos broke out, we still do not know how much longer it is going to last and what the actual risks are.
This is the first time in our history of negotiations that we have already been able, before the summer, to receive and agree on the broad scope of these pilot projects.
That would reverberate on Europe itself.
One is the rather political issues that you quite rightly raise.
Whilst healthy eating for many is essential for a prolonged and active life it is also essential that adequate information is provided to the consumer.
- (PL) Madam President, I should like to highlight three issues in the course of the debate on the reports on the sustainable use of pesticides and placing plant protection products on the market.
Therefore, if there is a measure whereby this discrepancy is removed, then there would be an incentive for vessels to make use of the electricity grid imports.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates.
That is why we attach such importance to the debate on the future of cohesion.
(ES) Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the Swedish Presidency and the whole House on the report that we have drawn up.
The market is not guided by values, but, above all, by the need to achieve profit at any cost.
The European Union is also going to financially support new projects in the field of alternative energy, and this includes the wind energy sector.
Nevertheless, we are convinced that there is a need to continue with a policy of engagement and to support the positive developments.
In reformulating and renewing the EU strategy for Africa, the new local and global circumstances must be taken into account.
(HU) The most important thing to be done here, and I quite agree with the French presidency, is to find some kind of a solution for Ireland and the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
The June List supports the Commission on the point that it must be permitted to produce and sell drinking milk that is not classified in any of the three categories that apply at present.
I had the chance to speak to the Secretary-General of the United Nations about this at the last meeting of the Africa MDG Steering Group in New York last month.
This needs to be discussed further.
They will be asked how they are exercising this responsibility, and whether or not they use their scope for action in this matter will influence our relations with ASEAN.
Under the guise of adaptation to the digital environment, the Commission has introduced confusion into the European system of author's rights and related rights.
There will be a Troika meeting on GLS affairs on 27 and 28 October in Washington, in the framework of our cooperation on justice, freedom and security.
Finally, I believe that it is particularly important to set up monitoring bodies and impose financial penalties which reflect proper compensation for environmental damage.
We all understand that at this rate, no private enterprise could survive such criticism.
The European Research Area gives the research institutes, universities and scientists of the 27 EU countries the opportunity to cooperate.
The interdependence between the economies of the area is now greater than ever.
There is one thing we must not do: we must not make it too expensive for our passengers in Europe from more remote areas to travel by air - so, please, let us have a gentle introduction to emissions trading.
They have never been so clear as in the debate on whether we should exclude users from the Internet without a hearing in court.
Unfortunately, the ability of independent garages to compete with authorised repairers is still impaired by a number of restrictions, including limited access to spare parts and to technical information.
It does not measure the amount of fish caught; it only measures the amount of fish landed.
For some other political forces, human rights were less important.
As I understand they are especially interested in the Commission and the international organisations that are providing them with help giving them SME market access so that they can actually make use of the access to the European market.
In short, a new lease of life is needed.
This report asks Member States, local entities and school authorities to monitor and to improve the quality and nutritional standards of school meals.
I abstained because there are still a number of problems in Croatia, one example being the problem of corruption.
In short, this is a poor substitute for genuine regulation at European Union level to replace the 27 national sets of rules.
Ms Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, with her usual wisdom and hard work, has done a very good job and produced a report which deals with the problems of women prisoners in a most efficient way.
I agree with what our rapporteur says in Paragraph 51, that the European Neighbourhood Policy suffers from a lack of clear definitions and perspectives.
I thought he was expecting to gain seats in the next European elections.
I would hope that the Commissioner also understands the situation small countries are in.
It is clear now that the scientific consensus on man-made global warming is fast eroding: 30 000 sceptical scientists in the Manhattan Declaration; 600 scientists in a US Senate report; even German scientists this year writing to Chancellor Angela Merkel.
All in all, this is a project that helps all sides.
While it is true that programmes are implemented in Member States, the institution to which the European taxpayers entrust their money is the European Commission.
These three initiatives are also eagerly awaited by those working within justice in our countries.
By imposing the pure, simple and immediate independence of this Serbian province, home of Serbia's historical and spiritual cradle, Europeans and Americans have risked provoking serious reactions and developing an inconsistent international policy.
This is where we are today, so we still hope that Parliament will now provide, as soon as possible, a first reading.
Something will have to happen, however, and we will need to get things moving.
This example shows that even states whose citizens have suffered the most appalling crimes have dispensed with the death penalty as a means of justice.
I really think that we are now much closer to that and I am hopeful that we will have historic decisions at the next European Council meeting.
In France, Germany, Hungary, Spain and Great Britain, the number of houses with only one tenant has increased.
Many of the things included in the action plan are projects which are already underway.
I think that there is a general understanding that we need to revisit the question concerning compulsory landings, given that in the fisheries partnership agreement the intention was that these landings would be required for re-exportation purposes.
Many women in rural areas have an urban lifestyle; others have a lot of poverty and hardship in their life.
It encourages implementation of necessary reforms, both political and economic, and compliance with the Copenhagen criteria.
Instead of taking account of the views of the electorate, the EU is attempting to change these views via propaganda.
In the negotiations, it proved impossible to formulate a critical position on the nuclear deal between the US and India.
I am particularly pleased that Parliament has called for a definition to identify 'children at risk'.
We assume our own share of responsibility for the development of the European Union and it is precisely with this in mind that we accede to our presidency of the Council of the European Union.
We are only too well aware that a secure Europe cannot exist without us ensuring our energy security.
On the one hand, we would all like to have more rail transport.
I would like to highlight the important role that the state Babeş-Bolyai University in Cluj-Napoca plays in the provision of Hungarian-medium education.
Anyone who knows a bit about the Netherlands knows that it is not only in the green heart that this is true.
Over the last decade earthquakes, heat waves, forest fires, floods and storms have killed many people in Europe and destroyed costly infrastructure and precious natural spaces.
Written statements (Rule 116): see Minutes
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the Dumitrescu report and I am delighted that thanks to Parliament's efforts we have been able to adopt viable compromises for all the players involved.
This is quite an encouraging response from the United States as a reaction to the activities of the European Union.
Specifically, the ozone layer provides protection from harmful ultraviolet radiation from the sun, which causes multiple illnesses and problems including skin cancer and cataracts.
The challenge of ensuring the respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, while also integrating and guaranteeing security in Europe, is addressed here in what we think to be a comprehensive way.
The entire report is uncreative and I would even dare to say useless.
The Commission has subsequently collaborated with the parties involved, above all with Parliament and the Council, so that soil protection issues can be better understood and a consensus can be reached in this area.
Among those initiatives which are already in place is the European Transparency Initiative.
Therefore this motion for a resolution - along with the hearing in the Subcommittee on Human Rights next week - takes on an even greater significance because of the political and security situation in the area.
in writing. - (LT) The current financial crisis and economic recession are having a negative impact on public budgets.
We must ensure that consumers are given the opportunity to use their power in the market through knowledge and transparency.
It is, however, regrettable that the proposal for a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions has not been adopted, as that would make it possible to limit excessive speculation, and promote financial stability and investment in the long term.
This means that the whole population needs equal opportunities and equal access to essential goods such as proper education or access to political power.
California's scientists warned us 30 years ago about climate change.
One of the results of foetal alcohol exposure is a tendency for the child to grow up and to binge drink when he or she gets older.
We must use all means of action on the ground, get society enthusiastically involved, and adapt to our own society's capacity for adaptation, because we must not let our welfare suffer.
Autonomous Community tariff quotas on imports of certain fishery products into the Canary Islands (debate)
Poverty and job insecurity are attacks on human rights.
Let us contrast our position - and not for the first time - with Switzerland.
Therefore, the most important thing is to have enough courage to grab the bull by its horns.
There was also the expectation that the Andersson report would offer said guarantees.
I am in agreement here with all those who have raised this issue.
Likewise, the possibility for EU citizens to carry their pets with them, without being subjected to specific national regulations and standards, is important, as it can significantly reduce their travel efforts and costs.
I am a staunch defender of genuine human rights.
I think this initiative will be a welcome moment to take stock of developments at national, European and international level since 2008.
(PL) Mr President, the Galileo programme is finally ready.
So let us have a look once again at the terminology or the term 'conflict' between cultures or civilisations.
That will not happen if we implement the Nice Treaty, and so it is our opinion that we should, if possible, bring in the new Commission under the Lisbon rules.
The Commission believes that the legislative authority will come round to our common objective, which is to ensure that the new European supervisory architecture for the financial sector becomes fully operational from the beginning of next year.
(PT) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I must start by reiterating that the unrelenting fight against terrorism must be pursued within the law, with respect for the rule of law and without infringing fundamental rights.
In my opinion, we could actually have foreseen what has now happened in Ukraine.
For airport users, the proposed legislation now gives a framework for charge setting which involves them in making the decisions, which is transparent and which allows appeals.
It is without doubt the most important initiative on health of this present Commission.
If used correctly, it may also be a future-proof solution and one that will take us a significant step forward.
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
According to the majority in the European Parliament, all the different interest groups within regional politics, the fisheries sector and agriculture must get a share of the EU's pie.
(HU) Multilingualism and intercultural dialogue does not preclude the possibility for those who belong to the same culture and speak the same language to meet and create international organisations and consultative bodies.
The Commission coordinated this exercise, and provided the results of the first phase of the investigation in November 2007.
- After the vote on Amendment 243:
Tell me, where else in EU legislation do we have measures that encourage resource efficiency?
Measures such as financial support for people who have completed university are essential for a smooth transition to the labour market.
Although the law is not targeted at any particular religious groups in terms of its content, the everyday reality is otherwise.
We feel that we must now focus on implementing the Strategy.
To close, I should like to thank the international organisations such as Mayors for Peace, the IPPNW and the ICAN.
Given that fundamental list of objections, I voted against this report.
I share your concern on this issue.
Our leader's wife, Kapka Siderova, had a miscarriage because the harassment against her got so far that charges were pressed against her in a fabricated political trial.
The final subject that I would like to emphasise today is of course the issue of biofuels and renewable energy in the transport sector.
The broad outlines of the approach recommended by the Commission for the continuation of SIS II were accepted.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8))
Therefore, let us postpone this part and find a better, prudent solution later, so that we do not have to renegotiate afterwards and find ourselves in a position where we may not be able to achieve anything further.
Let us know how to grasp it and create new virtuous circles by thinking of our planet, here and now, but above all of future generations.
If there is no money, terrorist activity is held back, and that is, of course, the aim of our efforts.
Keeping to the framework understanding on contacts with Parliament will be a test for the new Commission, especially the principle of equal treatment for Parliament and the Council.
It is high time to act for ourselves and not just to leave it to the United States.
I would like to remind my fellow Members that, following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Union will become party to the Convention on Human Rights.
We have already completed the two exploratory studies, we have also completed consultations and the impact assessment is currently in preparation.
The latest United Nations report shows that, in fact, the situation seems to be getting worse.
Perhaps Spain was wrong to entrust salvage of the vessel to Gibraltar?
This tripartite dialogue has brought us to a point where we now have a document and a text.
So here we have a question that lies outside the scope of the referendum, and that is the question of whether or not to hold a referendum.
I know that we have spent a great deal of time on chapter 38, which is devoted to reproductive health, to sexual rights and, in particular, to contraception and abortion.
This project will offer European consumers and firms a fully integrated payments market that is efficient in terms of costs and is of the highest quality.
Second Internet Governance Forum, held in Rio de Janeiro from 12 to 15 November 2007 (vote)
Madam President, I am going to limit myself to contributing some additional information to this debate.
Firstly, there needs to be a global switch to more renewable sources of energy, more energy efficiency and energy saving.
Why accept the end of textile quotas and the laying off of tens of thousands of European workers?
That is all for the moment.
We therefore continue to stress the need for an in-depth review of the CAP with priority being given to the protection of family-based agriculture and small and medium-sized holdings in order to support production and guarantee incomes.
Several of you have stressed the importance of aiding small and medium-sized enterprises in the current climate.
Well, my Commission has proposed to get rid of them, in a review including 35 other marketing standards for food and vegetables that we find are unnecessary.
Developments in Turkey are a matter for concern to liberals and democrats.
Firstly, I would like to talk about modulation, which was mentioned by Mr Goepel, and by Mr Baco, Mr Sanzarello and Mrs Lulling a moment ago.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I should like to say to the High Representative: thank you so much for your statement.
We should behave outside European waters in just the same way as we do at home.
That should not happen, and there is another reason for this.
The negotiation process must be maintained, and so I consider both fundamental principles to be important: the equal treatment of regional integrity and the right of self-determination.
Rather, in some ways it wanted us to use this initiative to call on the Commission to take up this matter again as a priority for the next mandate.
Therefore, I very much regret the postponement of the EU delegation's visit to Iran and I hope that it can be rearranged as soon as possible.
In a period of crisis, we socialists believe that Europe should respond through its budget with very specific characteristics.
It is now up to the national judges and to the European Court of Justice judges to enforce the right of all internet users to enjoy a 'prior, fair and impartial procedure'.
I believe, however, that we should never forget that these actions must be carried out within a framework of simultaneous actions for other weak countries in Europe too.
As you stressed, in our daily work, we need to make a distinction between those who have become sedentary and those who remain nomadic.
More is the pity, then, that the Member States have not transposed this useful Regulation into their legislation in spite of the fact that this should have happened by 1 August 2007.
Giving people this right should also mean guaranteeing them the right to develop their lives.
Do you have any comment on this?
We all agree that this requires action targeted at citizens of all ages, in schools, the workplace and other settings.
Regarding infrastructure, we intend to focus on a multimodal core network that acts as the backbone of a pan-European transport system.
Mr Stockmann, the Structural Funds are available for some pilot initiatives.
We chose to vote in favour of the report as in many ways it stresses the role of taxation policy in the Member States as regards employment, welfare and the environment, as well as a well-functioning internal market.
I hope that the delegation will continue to enjoy a pleasant and successful stay in the European Union.
Any other approach would mean not just a huge administrative burden for the industry, but often also logistical problems.
This is an amendment to European legislation that enables us to grant facilities for balances of payments, for countries outside the euro zone.
However, in order to measure up to what people, the European public, expect from us now, the conclusions of this debate need to be clear, simple and, moreover, practical.
As a member of the Committee, I also see that he has performed his job in a very balanced way.
In 2008, 36% of all investigations were either settled by the institution complained against or resulted in a friendly solution.
Secondly, it is also vital, of course, that the European Court of Auditors analyse these exercises in detail and provide the necessary documentation.
The objective of this report was to use the law to govern all aspects of life, even though it has certain centralised features.
Madam President, there has clearly been an alteration to the oral amendment, and the author is now in favour of that oral amendment.
I would therefore like to emphasise that the European Parliament is calling for a higher-level definition of 'highly qualified workers'.
This illegal practice places sustainable timber exploitation and the companies involved in it at risk.
It must be absolutely clear that taking a risk-based approach is not a soft option.
Over 80% of the population are living on less than a dollar a day.
Priority projects, such as Nabucco, acknowledged by the European Council as well, will diversify the European Union's natural gas supply sources and they must be achieved.
(RO) As I also said here on Monday in the European Parliament, Moldova needs concrete actions, not promises.
We have to put the financial systems at the service of the progress of peoples and their countries and not at the service of big capital!
We are talking about a case that concerns a human being, a woman, and efforts are under way to find a political solution.
I would like Slovenia to put forward some concrete proposals and projects and to achieve results in that area.
The second point I would like to note refers to the safeguards demanded in the report in relation to neighbourhood policy.
However, it is certainly worth the attempt.
This is why I wish to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission proposal on the EU 2020 strategy does not contain any objectives for resolving the problems of the Roma community.
I am pleased that services have been organised quickly to hold the vote, and I hope the funds required in Italy are made available as quickly as possible to provide speedy and effective assistance.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Union for the Mediterranean has never been as vital to our future as it is today.
One thing is certain; we did everything to make our air unbreathable.
Indeed, this strikes me as an example of how things can be done.
We cannot allow people to profit from terrorism, and it would be irresponsible if we encouraged Israel to respond to such hostage-taking with an exchange, because the next Hamas hostage could be somebody from Paris, Amsterdam or Brussels.
In it we have included a commitment to transparency - transparency regarding the conditions provided to workers - but also a commitment to confidence between workers and employers.
Recent major changes to EU customs legislation will assist in identifying high risk consignments for controls.
(FR) Madam President, I am the first French socialist involved in this debate.
They undoubtedly led to the fall of apartheid in the Republic of South Africa.
These findings highlight the uncertain status of ownership, which encourages speculation and illegal occupation of forest land, especially around towns and in coastal areas.
Thus they are acquitting fascism, slandering socialism and exonerating imperialism of the crimes which it committed and is committing today.
Personally, I am also critical of the idea of taxing something and then using the taxes raised for a purpose which has nothing to do with the activity that is being taxed.
Today, national reforms move at good pace, the European economy scores steady growth rates, while unemployment rates are at their lowest since 1998.
We regret the fact that this wording was not used in the agreements with the Republic of Moldova and recommend the use of this neutral wording in the official documents regarding the EU relationship with the Republic of Moldova.
We are committing ourselves to reductions, legally based, earlier on the table, with concrete financing that I have not seen from other parts of the developing world.
Experts estimate that making such an agreement could result in very large losses of income among farmers.
To use an administrative measure in order to ban people for 15 years from holding or running for official positions is unacceptable.
Trade agreements between countries can guarantee political stability and lay solid foundations for reasonably durable diplomatic agreements.
That means that with the productivity trends that are likely, unemployment will increase again in most countries.
There is no discrepancy if Copenhagen is a success.
Every European citizen expects all of us, Commission and Parliament, to demonstrate political sensitivity.
On the other hand, we need to recognise that our partner in the fight against climate change is better than its reputation.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 12 December 2007.
I think that is an honourable position for us to take.
Therefore the European Union must support the awareness campaigns promoting gender equality and human rights.
This is definitely an important report and it is good that you have asked Mr Monti to prepare it, as he is an expert in this area.
It is a project that at this stage is undergoing a feasibility study that will be performed jointly by ENI and Gazprom.
But I would have to say that the remarks made here this afternoon by Mr Farage from the UKIP party were insulting to the Irish people and we will not accept that.
However, we should not make the scope of our external policy from exporting our values.
We have experienced 100% price regulation and we well remember what a failure it was.
A country based on values other than human rights.
Also, fighting corruption and having transparent privatisation is an important element.
We urge Venezuelan society to uphold the values of democracy and freedom, which are the total opposite of what Hugo Chávez does and says.
Madam President, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality voted for this report by a tiny majority of three votes, since six of its 33 members were absent.
Your proposals, President Barroso, recognise the overwhelming urgency of action.
Like our rapporteur, Mrs Van Lancker, whom I congratulate, I firmly believe that the social dimension of the Lisbon Strategy must be strengthened particularly through a greater emphasis on the issue of inclusion.
Europe must intervene to ensure that Greece's consolidation measures are worthwhile.
It will be the ninth time, Commissioner Špidla, that it has done this.
Just as remarkable, however, is the fact that the EU plans to provide no assistance whatsoever to a project to move us away from nuclear power.
Climate change, written in the language of floods, droughts and record-breaking temperatures, is only making the situation worse, particularly for the world's poorest.
(DE) Madam President, the meat scandal in Ireland has made waves throughout Europe, including Austria where, as a bizarre consequence of the scandal, Irish meat was sold as Tyrolean bacon.
However I believe that we have not taken advantage of the opportunity that has presented itself and we have not amended the Regulation in accordance with the direction proposed in the new one.
Instead of buying up banks' toxic assets, we should be spending taxes on renovating schools and hospitals and on greening the European economy.
The proposal aims to punish verbal and written addresses and thus poses a clear threat to freedom of expression and fundamental human rights.
The logical question is: why did this not happen earlier?
This 20% is exclusively for distribution to the session players.
In fact of course, what is happening in Somalia is not restricted to just this one horrifying, cruel murder enshrined in the majesty of the local Islamic religious law.
We wanted it to think for itself, because the world needs Europe's thinking, and for it to be proactive.
In the UK, the new government has taken radical action to overhaul and provide the necessary reform at a national level.
You can look around - one third of 785 is a little over 200, and there are about 30 of us here.
This is a question which we have not definitively answered.
However, what I can offer you is to take you under the catch-the-eye procedure.
Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of tax havens is not a mere technical issue.
The Commission has just presented a proposal that is fully in line with the report by a committee of wise men chaired by Mr Camdessus.
It must not be a lightweight structure, without substance.
This should be put right quickly, Commissioner.
This is not a record that anyone will have access to: the data are collected only in case of need.
I share the concerns of those who have voiced their misgivings about animal testing.
It increases financiarisation of the economy and volatility of the markets.
Let me just express my hope that the positive spirit which was present here, which was clearly supporting solidarity and responsibility, will be just as present during our leaders' deliberations tomorrow.
As I have said many times, I am certainly not going to reopen the tobacco reform.
You have already indicated that President Sarkozy still has to hold separate talks with eight to nine States.
It cannot come into force until this implementing regulation has been agreed between Parliament and the Council in a codecision procedure requiring unanimity in the Council - not the least of the complexities.
Common EU rules to prevent exploitation and the employment of illegally staying workers are therefore one way of raising the bar for many EU countries.
Three of those who died in the fires came from there.
But Russia is not the most important player this time, as it does not have real power to angle events in a way which would not be acceptable for the West.
However, I am taken aback by the fact that enlargement is presented as a reason why the Lisbon Treaty must be ratified.
And, of course, it is directly and equally applicable to all Member States and there is therefore no likelihood of different definitions or interpretations arising from one Member State to the next.
My own group's amendments would have strengthened the proposed legislation and it is a matter of some regret that they were unsuccessful.
However, I would like to point out the glaring differences and inequality which have come about under the EGF.
Unfortunately, Russian representatives repeatedly continued to explain away the crimes committed by totalitarian communism in the territories occupied by the USSR.
(RO) The success of the European Union's strategy for the Danube will depend on an ambitious action plan, as well as on identifying certain specific projects which will improve the lives of citizens in the Danube region.
I support scrapping the current information exchange system while keeping the individual declaration not to vote or stand twice.
- (SL) The New Transatlantic Agenda was new in 1995.
These projects fulfil the objective of increasing the solidarity shown by European citizens towards victims of terrorism.
On the other hand, governments can make their own contribution with adequate regulations and qualification programmes and by providing general support for free enterprise.
I am therefore very interested in keeping you closely involved in the further discussions on this important subject, and look forward to our brief debate now.
On the second part of your question on the coexistence issue, I would like to add the following.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the European Parliament resolution.
I fear that if we put off making a resolution, we will unduly restrict this matter.
Although history has given us ample evidence that this path leads nowhere, we are following it again.
We should make use of degraded soil as well as new non-food and non-animal food raw materials such as algae.
This would not only jeopardise their health and safety, but would also present a danger to the safety of all other road users.
I believe that the Commission will soon table such proposals and that we in this House and the Council will adopt them, without looking for any excuses.
Mr Tajani, the Commissioner for Industry and Entrepreneurship, has committed himself to study the losses in this sector.
It is about time this issue was discussed in Parliament.
The Western Balkans have only recently gone through an extremely traumatic period of war, causing great suffering to a huge number of people.
(DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this debate because it raises awareness, rather than arousing fear We must take action now, without waiting until tomorrow.
It is unacceptable that these two men remain in prison in the Siberian city of Chita, in violation of Russian law.
This definition of objective criteria is positive, but they must be tested on the ground to verify their reliability and adaptability to real situations and the specific characteristics of each natural area.
One-minute speeches on matters of political importance
If we are brave enough to do that, then we stand a chance of changing things for the better in Burma.
Conducting a responsible, effective policy for development should be a key focus for the European Parliament.
Let me now turn to some of the issues you raise in the resolution and which were mentioned in the report.
Preparation of the Employment Summit - European Globalisation Adjustment Fund - Renewed Social Agenda - Active inclusion of people excluded from the labour market (debate)
Mr President, I think it is obvious that we cannot ignore the context in which we are discussing this agreement.
It is time for this infernal spiral to come to an end.
The Committee on Petitions responded enthusiastically and called for the destruction of this site to stop, and urged the Commission to pursue its case against the Irish authorities, and yet nothing has changed.
My opening remarks will focus on our immediate 'to do' list, but I would also like to stress at the beginning two points with regard to EU-US institutional structures.
I particularly regret that Amendment 37 was rejected, as I think it reflected, very fairly, many of the concerns of this House.
The Commission's proposal to phase out milk quotas has been watered down by means of a requirement for a review as soon as 2010.
Call it 'dishwater' if you like, Commissioner, as that much better suits the quality of the product.
I urge you to support the amendments relating to the sea and the 1.5° rise in sea surface temperature. We also need to look at questions of public health.
This year's Conference of the Parties will be particularly important for an assessment of the situation.
This is not a proposition which is on the table, but it is much debated outside the working group.
We are in favour of common research into nuclear safety, for example, but we feel that, in several cases, the report is far too pro-nuclear energy.
The sustainable economy must be a major point in shaping the immediate future.
Well, it is never too late for him to change his mind.
This is one of the most important secular holidays.
Before the vote on Amendment 13:
rapporteur. - (NL) Please allow me first and foremost to thank the Members with whom I have been able to collaborate on this report for their excellent cooperation.
Therefore, we should appreciate this and support the United States in the noble cause of the fight against terrorism, because Western Europe in particular was protected by the US from communism for many decades.
The increasing concentration of media in the hands of wealthy patrons clearly stifles open debate.
(DE) The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is in favour of Croatia joining the European Union quickly and we welcome very much the rapid progress which this country has made.
It is very encouraging to know of your strong commitment to this quest.
Nevertheless, I believe that the agreement that Mrs Jackson managed to conclude with the Slovenian Presidency reveals excellent negotiating skills and a feeling for compromise on her part.
We also want the subsidiarity and free-choice principles to be maintained.
What action will you take to ensure that top earners and banks, and not the poor, foot the bill for the crisis, for example?
It is clear that European consumers want safe and affordable medicines.
It also needs to be a strategy for growth that is feasible and enforceable, and represents the European Union's major political and economic commitment for the next few years.
To understand what is really going on, it will suffice to follow the discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the review of the European Political Parties Regulation to understand what is really going on.
I think it is important to go into the negotiations with the goal that the best solution to the issue is a solution that involves everyone making a joint commitment.
We must focus on the four issues that, in my opinion, are now the most pressing issues for citizens in Europe today.
Various international reports mention the deterioration in humanitarian conditions for the population in those territories; a situation which nurtures poverty and violence, promotes radicalism and extremism - a cycle which urgently needs to be broken.
This new regulation strengthens safety, as I have said, and the manufacturer's responsibility through monitoring of the market, while at the same time reducing bureaucracy.
It was a top-down rather than a bottom-up process.
Violence against women is a violation of human rights and an obstacle to their participation in social and political life, and in their public and professional life, preventing them from acting as full citizens.
It will make food prices higher, particularly in the UK.
It is practical and it is right.
I support the proposal, which calls for a complete overhaul of European legislation on animal feed, to involve not only simplifying existing standards, but also bringing this legislation into line with food law.
Please do away with the nonsense we created at that time with the regulation on liquids and security checks at airports as quickly as possible.
The litmus test of this directive is its legal basis.
EU countries must not be divided into better and worse.
Let us remind ourselves that neither Europe nor the international community has ever understood it as such.
When the European integration process started, the common agricultural policy not only secured food supply for the population, it also laid the foundation for a modern European agriculture and other specific policies.
Mr Kohlíček, may I recommend that you read my statement through again.
I realise it is part of the negotiated compromise, which we accept, but it may well put a brake on the proposed changes.
I refer to the extensive debate that we had earlier.
Cooperation across national borders can take place in order to ensure quality and safety, but the choice of whether to donate or receive organs must be the choice of the individual or his or her family.
One might have the impression that the leading part of the Polish political class is not interested in European affairs.
First and foremost, we need to look at the problem of SME financing.
I did very much like your words Commissioner, because I also believe that it is very important that these agreements contain sufficient guarantees to avoid signing clauses which are unbalanced and unfair for European industry.
However, I would like to emphasise a problem we addressed in July 2007 in the form of the resolution adopted on the poorest regions in the EU.
New players have entered the market and new opportunities have been exploited, not only by these new players but also by the established ones.
Especially the political decision makers who, following the lead of Mr Zapatero and Ambassador Moratinos, have changed European policy towards Cuba.
(FR) Mr President, firstly, I should like to welcome and congratulate Commissioner Füle.
The European Union has much to gain from a competent and efficient EEAS, which is capable of being the EU's voice on the world stage and actively cooperating with the diplomatic services of Member States.
At the last European Council, the President of the Commission said that we were equal to the situation.
We believe that this is in the interest of both institutions.
It would be worth identifying the optimal solutions to this situation and I strongly believe that Commissioner Kroes and the Commission will agree to them.
Let yesterday's event set an example throughout the European Union.
It should be underlined that novel foods must be placed on the market only if they are safe for consumers and do not mislead them.
To reinforce those fundamental rights for each single citizen can only be an advancement of what we think as being the real values of our Europe.
Illegal immigration will be trivialised if, in future, every illegal immigrant is seen simply as a person without a valid work permit.
Member of the Commission. - The Commission is currently finalising the directive on the promotion of renewable energy, and I am targeting adoption of this directive by the end of this year.
I voted in favour of this recommendation, presented by a British member of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, Baroness Ludford, on Common Consular Instructions: biometric identifiers and visa applications.
This is a time to show our citizens that we care, and that the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty will make a real difference in our ability to serve their interests.
One reason for this is the rise in the influence of Islamic fundamentalists, who heap blame on them for every failure suffered by the people of the region.
For that matter, this is the scenario which is most compatible with the long-term sustainability of the euro.
The new US administration has also adopted a very significant stimulus plan.
Of course, we all want the citizens of Europe to be able to move about freely and to exercise their professions.
There was nothing hasty or improvised about it, and in any case amendments will be tabled before Parliament, as we know.
Let us remember that we often have to deal with families with many children, as well as immigrant families, in these types of environments.
This only distorts the market while not preventing price instability.
It is not, however, enough on its own.
Its adoption was a consequence of the events of the Second World War.
For these reasons, I voted in favour of the report.
Moreover, this is the philosophy that underpins - and will continue to underpin - my efforts as long as I remain a Commissioner, so that passengers can be offered the same safeguards in all transport sectors.
On the point that was raised by Mr Jarzembowski concerning the European coastguard, to whom I paid particular attention, I would like to underline that this is a very sensitive matter.
Mr President, Minister, the Copenhagen conference ended with a result that was a long way from what was expected.
I agree with Mr Zaleski that there is great potential for growth in trade between the EU and Ukraine, especially as far as trade in services is concerned.
However, it is by no means my intention to undermine codecision in any way, and, I might add, I have neither the power nor the desire to do so.
As you know, the Council has reached political agreement on the Eurojust and Network initiatives.
I also think that the indictment strengthens the reputation of the ICC, which hitherto has been shunned by some, including the great powers such as the USA, for fear of politically motivated prosecutions.
Thus biofuel, the production of biomass, can under no circumstances be at the expense of food production.
I would draw your attention to the fact that female illegal immigrants are very vulnerable and that they are often at the receiving end of forced labour, human trafficking and violence.
To protect workers, though, it is absolutely essential that a comprehensive smoking ban be brought in in all Member States.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Rahed is 50 years old; he has lost his home, his three children, his wife and two sisters-in-law.
(FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, enough of all this political hypocrisy.
The second question that Parliament is interested in concerns the accompanying financial measures requested by the ACP regions and especially our undertakings to support trade.
It is important that people recognise that the advent of new technology - which we all welcome as it is fantastic - does not mean that you have the right to take something for nothing.
Genuine support must be given to local and regional initiatives aiming to introduce renewable energy and to encourage its use.
This spill resulted in the drinking water supply being cut off to 2.5 million people in three countries.
I think it is very important for Europe and, of course, Europe is also important to Latin America.
We fund a large number of projects linked not only to official languages but to numerous regional and minority languages as well.
The conclusions talk about a timely exit from exceptional support measures.
However, we are disappointed at the proposal's limited scope and the fact that the European Parliament has not been ambitious enough in either its report or its amendments.
(DA) Mr President, I would like to start by wishing Mr Barroso luck, because the President of the Commission has genuinely succeeded in putting together a Commission that reflects his political project involving the EU.
Madam Commissioner, my question is how the Commission will reflect on the Israeli non-paper and especially how will the Commission work on a new action plan?
On the supply side, I would take the liberty of saying to the Commissioner that this proposed pilot project would indeed cost money, resources from the taxpayer.
We also very much welcome your saying that you wish to initiate consultations with Member States.
But I would welcome a comment, please, on what is happening on the sanctions against employers.
However, I also note that India is still off track on most of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) such as infant mortality, maternal health, child malnutrition and the battle against malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS.
If the decision had been ours, many parts of it would have been different.
If, on 8 September, we find that movements have begun, then alright.
I supported all three applications, since I believe that the assistance provided by this fund is particularly needed by our people at this time.
When the judges took down the data in the minors courts, it was considered standard practice.
But it builds on the liberalisation that I strongly oppose.
(RO) Let me begin by expressing the hope that, in spite of the fairly general nature of the programme, the Spanish Presidency will achieve concrete results by the end of June.
We think, perhaps because I belong to the transport sector and I am an expert in road safety, that perhaps, Commissioner, we should consider something similar to the Action Plan on Road Safety.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, with President Obama in the US we now have a political leader who shows foresight and courage.
Emissions from transport are increasing substantially.
In the light of information that has recently been received, a new dimension needs to be introduced into the debate on European security.
The decision on financial market supervision has still not been finalised.
It is hard to see precisely where the threat to human rights defenders in Russia comes from, but time and again we see wanton abuses going unpunished and a lackadaisical approach from the judicial authorities.
First of all, a comprehensive smoking ban protects from passive smoking, it is a disincentive for people, especially young people, to begin smoking, it is an incentive for many people to quit.
Problems are not solved by describing doomsday scenarios and speaking of human-rights violations or by adopting a disheartening tone instead of proposing solutions.
This is a team for which you can vote with confidence, a team that deserves your support.
It is very important that we do not forget, when setting out new objectives, about our previous policy, the Cohesion policy, the common agricultural policy or, if I look at Commissioner Andor, about renewing the European social model.
The European Union is virtually declaring war on our Canadian friends.
We are not there yet, but I believe it is possible to reach that agreement.
(FR) Madam President, I wish to reply to Mrs Pleštinská and then to Mr Sonik.
Perhaps I could add one further comment that goes beyond Iran itself on this matter.
The two texts proposed by the Commission, and I take this opportunity to applaud their common sense, correspond to our idea of immigration policy: a reasonably firm and humane policy.
I therefore think it is right to simplify the rules for the electronic identification of animals, and to create a telephone helpline in every EU Member State to provide better access to information.
Self-sufficiency policies are adopted in response to the disappearance of strategic reserves and wars are feared.
The Council must be aware, however, that it too needs to represent the citizens of Europe.
I believe, in fact, that it must be recognised that we have dismantled al-Qaeda - that is a genuine finding - and that we must pull out.
Also, in boycotting the Beijing Olympics, we deprive the Chinese authorities of their triumph.
As for the last question, the financial rules do not allow the Commission to transfer possible savings from the market organisation budget to specific national programmes to support Greek farmers.
Instead of imposing red tape on entrepreneurs, Europe needs a working time directive which will really ensure protection to those employed and dependent drivers who need that protection.
The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Commission on the follow-up of the EP resolution on cross-border collective copyright management (Lévai report, by Giuseppe Gargani, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs - B6-0381/2007).
In light of that, we should help the people in Serbia and in Kosovo to overcome their differences from the point of view of European integration, as has already happened in other parts of Europe.
Madam President, I have a brief comment on Turkey.
For our part, Croatia can count on our complete support.
I recall also that cosmetics companies in the European Union are world leaders in this sector with more than 3 000 cosmetics manufacturers.
We talk a great deal in this Chamber about the balance which exists between the European Commission, Council and Parliament.
The Communist regime has only served to exacerbate this attitude by advocating an ideology that suppresses all individual and social demands and, in particular, all national demands.
Madam President, this discussion will take place this evening, if the plenary votes in favour of the urgent procedure on this issue.
In addition, it will provide methods for assessing the progress achieved in the policy areas that fall under its mandate.
Despite our proximity to the Middle East and efforts to coordinate a united foreign policy, the European Union remains a peripheral player in efforts to move along the peace process between the Israelis and Palestinians.
Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow there will be some very close voting in some areas.
The core issue is still that both the European Member States and the European Union are responsible for the uncontrolled and illegal immigration, with all its catastrophic effects on society.
It is a significant contribution from the European Union to dealing with the current economic and financial situation.
I want passengers to be able to continue to enjoy this possibility of choice.
Ms Eva Dudzinska is sitting to the right of me. She has spent almost 35 years in the European Parliament.
Mr President, I am pleased that our Parliament was able to adopt this resolution by such an impressive vote, with no votes against.
Good wine, as we know, is the wine that sells.
Offering these thoughts, I would ask that you accept this report and give a discharge on behalf of the European Parliament
I would like to give my support to this communication, which describes what has happened in practice over the last three years.
Building on and reinforcing previous successes, the 'Barcelona Process: Union for the Mediterranean' will bring further momentum to the Union's relations with the Mediterranean countries.
Finally, I should like to mention a topic that cannot remain untouched, namely meat and bone meal.
The money that is spent on a single Sukhoi Su-30k aeroplane could buy around 200 000 MIT Media Lab XO laptops for our students.
Mr President, we have founded a lot of our efforts and based many of our policies on the hope that by being nice to Turkey this country will change its Kemalic fascism into democratic-like behaviour that is just about acceptable.
I trust that they will prove to be effective.
This is particularly significant when Mr Zapatero talks about how one of his objectives is the matter of developing innovativeness and education, which, as we know, is, in large measure, achieved with European funds at regional and local level.
This has devastating effects on our citizens, especially the less populated nations, which feel as though they are being bandied about to satisfy the interests of the more powerful nations.
Another very important area is investments and network development planning, especially the formulation of the European Union's ten-year plan for network development.
It is no less important that consumers should be informed about their rights and made aware of the tools that exist to help them in taking decisions in a free market.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, the Treaties do not confer any power of initiative on the Commission in the field of consular protection.
If we are to start working with Africa in that area today, then in five or maybe 10 years' time we shall be exchanging thousands of students and scientists.
in writing. - The green light has been given to the Lisbon Treaty, which has created all necessary circumstances for institutional reforms.
Mr President, thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to explain my vote on this important issue.
The project has already attracted considerable attention from the media and from politicians throughout the Baltic region over the last few months.
I know that the NPT also comprises civil elements, but we are not talking today about the renaissance of civil nuclear power; we are talking about nuclear disarmament.
I think this is an approach which balances the many interests at stake, even the conflicting ones cited by Mrs Trautmann, and also the many sectors concerned: and here I am thinking of the digital dividend.
Patients are aware of the treatment possibilities in other countries and wish to make use of services in other countries.
The current problems are linked to the present financial crash, but to claim the crisis in the aviation industry is wholly down to this would be wrong.
How can we ensure that the EU is also present at the table when the US, China and India meet to negotiate a compromise?
In view of these considerations, Junilistan has chosen to vote against the report.
The Council Decision, which was painstakingly negotiated into being by the German Presidency, guarantees a minimum level of protection.
The EU must not conduct a common foreign policy because such a development risks taking away from people their opportunity to hold their elected politicians accountable for their actions in their relations with foreign countries.
We also agree that liberalisation is the right approach, though there is something of a difference between my Group's position on this and, for example, the statement made by Mr Sterckx.
I think we should ask whether Mr Weber would like to say a few words to comment on or react to the appeal made by the rapporteur for this debate, Mrs Ayala.
The most difficult thing in relations with our eastern neighbours will be to root out the tendency to make bilateral agreements, and that is the real measure of success or failure of Community energy security and energy solidarity policy!
The Quality Assurance Framework is designed to continuously improve vocational education and training.
Firstly, I would like Commissioner Reding to emphasise the role of women in the European Union's external action.
The population of these countries is very young.
I have also emphasised the fact that in most European countries there is a still a marked under-representation of women on scientific committees - yet another example of women's lack of representation in decision-making bodies.
This sector needs to be promoted, because it contributes towards development and productivity.
We have also condemned other acts of terror perpetrated in Turkey and will continue to do so.
After all, he more than anyone is committed to further European integration, often against the will of the peoples of Europe.
The murder of hundreds of women, mostly workers in the north of the country, is making headlines and has spawned the term 'feminicide'.
Not all products are covered - we focused on those of real interest, following a broad consultation with consumers and with industry.
Firstly, a number of countries of the South, in principle partners of the European Union, are on the brink of the abyss: in addition to the food, environmental and energy crisis, there is the financial crisis.
It disrupts everything and it simply leads to false compromises.
Such initiatives will contribute to the development of the continent, but only if it is Africans, particularly the local populations, who will largely be involved in building up prosperity, rather than the employees of foreign businesses investing there.
Due to the lack of security there, more and more people are seeking refuge in the camps.
That is the only way that we can all come out of it.
The problem manifests itself differently in the EU's 27 Member States, hence solutions must also vary.
in writing. - (CS) The European Union is often justifiably criticised for interfering in a range of industrial sectors.
Meter-reading frequency is not defined by EU legislation.
My hope and wish is for this to be the case.
It broadcasts daily 8-10 hours of high-quality programming that consists of news, journalism and culture.
In the same year, there were new road schemes under construction, but only one of them was in the West - in the BMW Region.
The treaty does not say that it is forbidden to take on debts.
That is why we have worked actively on the issue of age-related illnesses in the Seventh EU Research Framework Programme.
All these matters are systematically raised by the EU, most recently at the meeting between ministers from the EU troika and Turkey that took place in Stockholm in July and in the Association Council in May.
But, as I stressed before, we should not forget that this process is not just about economic opportunities.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I would like to react to what Mr Bradbourn had to say.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I should like to thank all those who contributed to a very interesting debate.
The Commission proposal aimed to prevent visa shopping.
The claims and attitude of the opposition should be taken into consideration, but evaluated in the context of the entire political and economic situation, both internally and in the region.
I voted in favour of this report because I agree that there needs to be a balance between theoretical study and practical initiation in every area, including artistic studies.
I think some facts have to be accepted.
We need incentives, prices, costs and the right signals.
The most important issue is to protect the people in these employment relationships from exploitation.
For this reason, I have decided to abstain and not to vote for my fellow Member's report.
This regards the revision of the Dublin law on the responsibility countries must assume when processing asylum applications by immigrants who have already entered their territory.
On the other hand, we cannot always consider the economic crisis itself as an excuse for this predicament, as airlines went bankrupt even before this crisis was unleashed.
We should be seeing results and continuing to work consistently.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - (LV) Mr President, Mr Almunia, in order to help the economies of the Member States in Central and Eastern Europe to recover, there are two possible approaches: giving fish or giving a fishing-rod.
President Barroso, I welcome your vision for 2020.
in writing. - I welcome Françoise Castex's recommendations regarding Europe's demographic future.
We have a moral responsibility and we are prepared to take it on board.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, as I understand it, the PPE-DE has withdrawn Amendment 4, but would like to vote on paragraph 8 in two parts, which I fully support.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, it is absolutely crucial that the G20 employment and labour ministers put quality jobs at the heart of their economic recovery plans.
I support the efforts made as part of this report to successfully extend the freedom of movement for holders of long-stay visas in the same way as that for holders of permits and short-stay visas.
If you want to display 'No', nothing is displayed.
It is absolutely vital for those who have experienced shortages and those who fear them in the future to know how Europe will protect them from these possible new crises.
I am leaving directly, not out of rudeness, but because I have an important meeting elsewhere.
Mr Lambrinidis, there is a proper procedure for distributing the Minutes.
So the wish expressed at the start by Mr Deprez, on which I would say there was a broad consensus including from the President of the Council, and which I personally agree with, is the right working method to use.
People can live in Helsinki, with its average annual temperature of 6°C, or they can live in Dakar in 30°C. Two thousand years ago, Julius Caesar was walking on the Rhine because it was frozen over.
This is another point about globalisation: climate change and the need to have a global solution to a global problem.
Secondly, President Musharraf has also banned independent exit polls on this election.
There are also problems in the Council when it comes to financial supervision.
This has been demonstrated on numerous occasions.
Cod stocks in general are in very bad shape.
Any legislation aimed at completing the single market should be coupled with a study of its impact on employment in the sector concerned.
It would be very strange within the Schengen zone in particular, if we were to bother with police or customs inspections, since we know that there are various other methods for scanning the contents of larger lorries.
Of course it is always essential for us to continue evaluating the harmful effects, but we cannot overdo it.
Five years after this tragedy, which took place in one of the busiest and most monitored spots in the world, no one can say how and why this ship sank.
Parliament's statement emphasised the importance of four issues: developments in research, early diagnosis, improved quality of life for patients and their carers, and the status of the Alzheimer's associations.
I consider that, as long as things can still be remedied and dialogue can prevent the deterioration of the situation, sanctions should remain the last measure to resort to.
The Scandinavian authorities were therefore recommended to restore the aircraft's certificate of airworthiness, once the necessary corrective measures had been taken, of course.
Work at official level within the Council on the possibility of expanding the issuing of visas for human rights defenders is continuing.
