Hi, I'm Siyu Yuan from Fudan University. I'm here to introduce our work. Distinguishing script knowledge from large language models for constrained language planning. In everyday life, humans often plan their actions by following step-by-step instructions in the form of granted scripts. Previous work has exploited language models to plan for abstract goals of stereotypical activities, such as make a cake, and show that large language models can effectively decompose goals into steps. However, previous work mainly focuses on planning for the abstract goals of stereotypical activities. Planning for the goals with specific goals, specific constraints, such as make a chocolate cake, still remains understudied. In this paper, we define the problem of constrained language planning, which imposes different constraints on the goals of planning. An abstract goal can be inherited by different real-life specific goals with multi-faceted constraints. A good planner should write scripts that are reasonable and faithful to constraints. Strengths. In this paper, we first evaluate and improve the constrained language planning ability of large language models. Since no dataset of specific goals exists to support our study, we have to acquire these goals first. As shown in the table, we extend the abstract goals with multi-faceted constraints for human in the loop data acquisition. Use instruct GPT. We sample 100 specific goals and evaluate the scripts generated from large language models. This table reports the overall accuracy of the results. We find that all language models achieve unsatisfactory results on planning for specific goals. Then we conduct detailed analysis to investigate why linear models fail. Results in the figure show that the semantic completeness in generated scripts is acceptable, but the faithfulness to the constraints cannot be guaranteed. We dig into more fragmented topic categories of constraints defined in WikiHow. The heat map in the figure shows that the planning performance of instructive PDS varies considerably for goals of different categories. Previous studies have shown that the output quality of language models falls in high variance, leading to bad performance. Thus, we adopt the idea of over-generated then filter to improve generation quality. We first show constraint types with examples for instruct GPT, and obtain specific goals based on the seed abstract goals. Then instruct GPT to overgenerate case scripts for specific goals. Next, a filter model is developed to select the feasible scripts. We convert scripts and goals into instruct GPT embeddings, and calculate cosine similarity and similarity scores to measure semantic similarity. In addition, we award the script that contains the keywords of the target constraint. We only keep the secret if the target girl scores the highest in the girls' set. With our method, instruct GPT can generate scripts of high quality. Our method greatly improves the planning ability, both in semantics completeness and faithfulness to the constraint. Since large language models are costly to deploy, it's essential to enable language planning ability of smaller and specialized models. Creating data set is an essential step to its end. End. However, previous studies do not enable planning for specific goals, and manual manual data set annotation is expensive. Thus, we follow the idea of symbolic knowledge distillation to distill constrained language planning data sets from large language models. We apply our method for building a data set of constrained language planning, named as CoScript. In total, we generate fifty-five thousand specific goals with scripts to ensure the quality of validation and test sites. Crowd sourced workers to find and revise the incor incorrect samples. This figure shows the constrained distribution of Coescript. We find CoScript shows high polymorphism in the generated specific goals. With CoScript, we can train smaller but specialized models for constrained language planning. We find that T5 fine-tuned on the code suite can generate scripts of higher quality than most large language models, indicating that smaller models can surpass larger models when properly trained on suitable data sets. In summary. We established the constrained language planning problem. We evaluate constrained language planning ability of large language models, and develop a overgenerate then filter method for large language models. We use a large language models to generate a high-quality script data set, code script, for constrained language planning. We hope this data set can be a valuable resource to advance the research on language planning. Thanks for your time. Please find more details of code script in our paper. Okay
